The 7th Bersaglieri Regiment had only two battalions, the 10th and 11th. The 8th was disbanded in September due to losses.
For the Battleaxe scenario ONLY can this 8th battalion be used. It's worth noting the battalion did attempt to reform, but was destroyed again at Gialo (technically part of Crusader, but very far off.)
On the other hand, the 9th Bersaglieri Battalion had four battalions. It likely had three back in Italy (which appears on most orders of battle) but received a fourth in Africa.
Two of them were disbanded or destroyed due to the severe losses suffered by this regiment during Crusader.

I've since changed my mind PARTIALLY on this. Sources indicate that while the 8th was disbanded, during Crusader, an attempt was made to reform it, that failed.
So while this unit certainly didn't exist by Gazala or later, back during Crusader, it's fair to have this battalion (now of mixed support form) in the order of battle.

Hollmann commanded the 3rd Battalion, 155th Infantry Regiment (not in game) that was near the 3rd Battalions of the 255th and 347th Regiments.
Actually, this is very likely not true. His rank was only that of Oberleutnant (First Lieutenant). It would be insane to have him coxmmanding a battalion.
It's now been confirmed that the commander was a Major Meythaler/Maythaler (actual spelling likely the second, but ultimately unclear).
The commanders of the regiment's first 2 battalions haven't been researched much by me but can definitely be found out.

Many sources indicate an Oberst Zintel as commander of the 115th Motorized Regiment. This may have been the case.
But... I can't find a single mention of this guy literally anywhere else. So I don't intend to trust this.
In the unlikely world where he did exist, Zintel took control of the 115th Infantry Regiment not long before crusader began.
I was unable to find any evidence that Marcks commanded it during this time period. I've later found evidence that he took command only in December.
NOTE: This has since been retconned. Zintel is even less documented than Marcks.
In fact, I was wrong. Marcks was in command during at least a brief period of Operation Crusader. But either way neither he nor Zintel were the commander at the start.
Instead, I've put Zincke in command. My guess is that his name was misheard as Zintel and that's where it all began.
And Marcks was just caught up in this. I guess that makes sense given he commanded not one, not two, but three different regiments within a few monhts.

Finke and Warrelmann have both been claimed as the commander of 2nd Machine Gun Battalion. Based on my sources I believe Warrelmann was the commander at this time and Finke commanded 2nd Battalion, 115th Infantry Regiment instead.
This has now become relevant in light of recent events, I've had to reintroduce both battalions.
I believe that sources that indicate the non-existence of 2nd Machine Gun Battalion confused these two units. That, or they didn't realize the 2/115th Battalion had been temporarily detached.
This battalion would be converted to a regular infantry battalion in April 1942 with its heavy companies split among the other battalions.
I don't know what happened to Warrelmann after that, but I believe he stayed with the battalion since his name does get mentioned later in 1942.
In fact, his name gets mentioned as a the commander of a Kampfgruppe centered around 3/115, which was the former 2nd Machine Gun Battalion, which confirms he stayed.

I've found later evidence that Warrelmann (first name Hinrich) lasted at least as long as Second El Alamein, confirming the above.
He also commanded a battle group during the capture of Tobruk in 1942, although it seems like this group only formed near the very end of the battle to hold against a potential counterattack (that never materialized).
And for my game, since Paul Schütte is unavailable to lead his battle group in Operation Sommernachtstraum, that's another time for Warrelmann to take command of a force.

Sonderverband 288 had not fully arrived in Africa by November 1941.
Only one group, Sperrverband (blocking detachment) Daumiller had actually arrived, but didn't participate in Crusader. I think the unit is cool though, so I made it pickable.
That detachment basically just spent the entire battle as a guard in Benghazi and consisted of a few infantry-adjacent companies. It withdrew after Benghazi was being given up.

I don't intend to add Mickl's 155th Infantry Regiment (Semi-Motorized) as I don't know all of its battalion commanders.
[
    Only the third battalion's commander, Hollmann, is currently known.
    There's actually a lot of confusion about this, since other sources say that Meythaler was acutally the commander of 3/155 and 3/255's commander was somebody else.
    I'm inclined to think this was the case now, since the claim that Meythaler was in command of 3/255 wasn't well substantiated and could be a typo.
    It's also possible that his name was spelled Maythaler. I don't know either way, maybe somebody who knows German can help me with that.
    There's also a Captain Kolbeck who became commander of some kind of composite battalion at some point. Whether he held a command before that is unclear.
    Hartz commanded what appears to be just a single platoon from the 3/255 battaion. I wanted to put him as temp battalion commander but it didn't become necessary.
    I'm also aware that von Barby previously commanded the battalion, but it looks as if he's busy at the moment.

    I also don't know the commander of the 3rd Battalion, 347th Infantry Regiment. I've heard of an Oberstleutnant Grund, but very little is known of him.
    I've made him the commander, but I really can't confirm this.
    NOTE: This has now been reverted. Grund has been moved to the 3rd Battalion, 255th Infantry Regiment, as I have evidence that Albert Panzenhagen commanded 3/347 during this time.
    FURTHER NOTE: This has also been reverted. I've found evidence of an officer named "Eder" from this area, who appears to have been in command of some infantry battalion. 3/255 is my best guess.
    Believe you me, I've spent an absurd amount of time on this. But I'm not willing to go wait several months for the Bundesarchiv to respondanze, so I think we're giving up on this one.

    I'm letting von Barby keep his 361st Regiment. Panzenhagen is confirmed as commander of 3/347.
    No commander's name could be definitively found for 3/255, so I'm giving it to Maythaler (also spelled incorrectly as Meythaler), as he couldn't command 3/155 if it doesn't exist.
]
Final Evidence: I have determined from new sources (dating to 2018, nearly 10 years later) that von Barby DID NOT command the 361st regiment at this time.
He only took command... on January 4, 1942. Before then, it was Oberstleutnant Heinz Grund, who appears to have been wounded. And before him, it was Kirsten.
So yes. Von Barby was available to command 3rd Battalion, 255th Infantry Regiment at this time. It's decided.
Also, I found out who Kolbeck was. He was the adjutant in the divisional staff. So no, not a battalion commander until later.

Having reflected some, this really was a major error of judgement on my part. I did find significant evidence that it might've been him, but I disregarded it all because I thought my previous evidence was infallible.
Even when that previous evidence proved (and has proven again) to be on the unreliable side of things.

Sources are murky on this but here's the path of the infantry of the three divisions:
Rommel arrives in Africa with IR zbV 200 with 2 machine gun battalions.
He is then joined by 15th Panzer with 15th Infantry Brigade with 2 Regiments, 104 and 115, each with 2 motorized infantry battalions (NOT machine gun).
These 6 battalions were then evenly distributed between 15th and 21st Panzer (renamed from 5th Light), with each receving 2 motorized infantry and 1 machine gun battalion in their regiments (115 and 104 respectively).
The loose 200th Regimental Staff would command random units during crusader.
At this time, 5 random 3rd Battalions were transferred to Africa to form 90th Light Division. They were joined by the 361st Light Regiment. 3 of the random battalions later formed 155th Infantry Regiment.
After Operation Crusader, the 3/255 Battalion was destroyed and disbanded. The remaining loose 3/347 Battalion and 1 from IR 155 became part of the new IR 200 which became a permanent part of 90th Light Division.
The panzer divisions still had 115th and 104th regiments, though in a greatly weakened state, with 1/104 lost with Major Bach at the frontier.
It appears the remaining machine gun battalions became regular infantry and the 15th Motorcycle Battalion was also amalgamated.

The XX corps was called the Corpo d' Armata di' Manovra until 1942. But just calling it CAM would be pretty confusing and indistinct.

It appears that Italian Mixed Support (a.a. e a.c.) (Support Weapons and Anti-Tank in Italian) Battalions varied heavily in number of companies and design.
I've made them all the same for abstraction reasons, and because the extra companies don't matter much. Either way, quality sources are hard to find.

One source I have found indicates the 66th Infantry Regiment "Sicilia" had three infantry battalions and lacked a mixed support battalion.
This feels like a mistake to me, though, since I can't find support anywhere else and it just... doesn't make any sense? So I'll ignore it.

If you thought the structure of German Kampfgruppen could be confusing, they at least make a decent amount of sense in structure.
British order of battle could often be worse, with loose artillery battalions lying around in divisional units, random companies supporting brigades, and loose reconaissance everywhere.
I've tried my best to minimize these loose units since all they would do is greatly frustrate the British commander. Only loose units that can be called "Infantry" are kept.
This is problematic in the case of Machine-Gun Battalions. Both 70th Division and 1st South African Division had divisional battalions of that type.
I've elected to not deploy them, however, since these units are never mentioned in the sources and don't appear to fight as one.
On the other hand, 27th Machine Gun Battalion from New Zealand does seem to have fought as a single operational unit, so I've included it.
Ultimately, though, this'll operate on a case-by-case basis. Sometimes they'll be included, sometimes they won't.
Here's a couple such examples:
70th Division: 1st RHA, 107th RHA, 17th Coast RA, 149th Anti-Tank RA, 1st Royal Northumberland Fusiliers (MG)
7th Armoured: 4th SA Armoured Cars, 4th RHA (sent from support group to 7th Armoured Brigade, probably by Gott)
1st South African Division: "President Steyn" Machine Gun Battalion

One source I have calls Daumiller Daumüller. I can't say anything about this.

I researched for some time about this guy called Alfred Köster who commanded 200th Panzergrenadier Regiment after Geissler left. I was unable to find much of value. Where he originally came from I'll never know.
In contrast, we know a lot about Albert Panzenhagen of 3/347, even though some earlier histories don't acknowledge his battalion's apparent existence.
In fact, some are in a bit of denial about it. Panzenhagen even commanded a Kampfgruppe during Operation Sommernachtstraum centered around his battalion and still they don't list it.
Similarly, we know a lot about the Panzer commanders, including how Fenski was killed during the battle and replaced with Kümmel.

2nd Battalion, 115th Infantry Regiment appears to have been commanded by Göttman at this time.
We later hear during Gazala that this man was no longer in charge and that the new commander was called Roske. He was killed or captured soon after anyway.
Some sources indicate that after Roske's loss, the battalion was disbanded, whle others cliam that a Rocholl replaced him. Either way the battalion was gone by the end of the battle.
Alternatively, maybe both of these are true. Rocholl could've taken command only for the battalion to end up disbanded a few days later anyway.

I can confirm that Moubray still commanded the 3rd Battalion, Coldstream Guards by the end of Operation Crusader. Only in 1942 was he replaced by Sainthill.
I can't be sure that he was still around when Rommel launched his second offensive, but given the timeline it seems unlikely that he would have lost command (given his battalion's decent performance.)
Lucky time to leave command for him, I guess, since otherwise he would've been captured at Tobruk. Or maybe he would've managed to break out like Sainthill did.

Some sources indicate the Giovani Fascisti Regiment and the MILMART battalion as part of the Areite Division. I believe they were corps assets or part of RECAM but were fluidly redeployed within CAM.
Bortolo Zambon certainly was not in command of the Brescia division, having left at the end of October. Instead Gioda acted as temporary commander until Lombardi could take command.

If the 46th Artillery Regiment (Italian) ever does get added to the game, make sure to give its command to a certain Colonel Grati.
Actually maybe not, he might've actually been in command of the 2nd Celere Artillery Regiment.
This has now happened as part of the updated sets. I've ended up picking Grati even though he's in a disputed position.

The commander of the machine gun (4th) company of 15th Motorcycle Battalion was a Leutnant Paulewicz.
The commander of the third company of the 33rd Engineer Battalion was an Oberleutnant Cirener.
This is the same company that was briefly given to the 2nd Machine Gun Battalion, I believe (wrong).
I was wrong about this ^. It was acutally the 2nd company of the battalion, of unknown commander, that was given to the 2nd Machine Gun Battalion temporarily.

A Major Teetz commanded the 300th Oasis Battalion in some way but was no longer in command by the time of Crusader. He's only mentioned in once place but is higher ranking than Ennecerus.
The 300th Oasis Battalion is an interesting unit. For the simplified Crusader map I decided to use an earlier form of it (still commanded by Teetz) with only 2 oasis companies.
I believe its other companies weren't assigned yet despite having arrived in Africa, as the battalion staff was still very much a training unit and not for combat.
Those three companies are: 6th Oasis (Hauptmann Ennecerus, possibly), 12th Oasis (Leutnant Schön) (some claim has name lacked an accent but I find that unlikely), 580th Reconnaissance (Hohmeyer)

Despite a very short lifespan, the 90th Light Divison had a ton of commanders. Before Sümmermann there was Hans von Ziegler und Klipphausen as acting commander.
The 2nd Machine Gun Battalion was commanded by Voigtsberger back in July 1941. It's unclear when Warrelmann replaced him.

The transfer of engineer units is very hazy and unclear. However, from what I can tell, this is what happened:
33rd Panzer Pioneer Battalion had 3 companies. One was lost to join 2nd Machine Gun Battalion, along with another from the 39th Panzer Pioneer Battalion of 3rd Panzer Division (which never entered Africa).
The first company eventually returned to its parent unit while the other one was sent to the 200th z.b.V. Panzer Pioneer Battalion. Since that unit doesn't exist in, my world, we'll let 2nd MG Battalion keep its backup.
Because the precedent has been set that even a single company of engineers is enough, this battalion has now been rated as engineer-capable in-game.
Either way, it looks as if both were destroyed during Crusader. The 33rd Engineer Battalion was utterly ruined and down to company strength by the end, and the 200th had surrendered in Bardia.
After having done a lot more research, though, this isn't as unclear as before. It'd be better to describe it as "obscure" instead.

I originally used this to make 2nd Machine Gun larger than a normal unit, but I was actually wrong. It appears all german motorized infantry at this time had 5 companies.
This 5th company was a heavy company and wasn't present in non-motorized battalions. They were disbanded in 1942 with all companies becoming somewhat "heavy".
It appears this additional company also applied to the 15th Motorcycle Battalion. And the 4th battalion for these units was a machine-gun battalion. It was kind of a mess at the time.
I've decided not to use this as a reason to change around the sizes and specifications of the other units, however. Designing Crusader has never been about obsessing over companies.
Only the special engineer company of 2nd Machine Gun Battalion is being counted, because this was a company that certainly wasn't meant to part of its structure.
On later versions of my orders of battle, though, I've removed this extra company. In real life, it joined the 21st Panzer Division's 200th z.b.V. engineer battalion.
Since that unit doesn't exist in my world, I gave it to the Afrika z.b.V. Division instead, as a component of the Oasis Battalion (as both were on the frontier).

Actually, on some later versions, I'm gonna take this company away. It'll probably just be a loose company given to, say, the 300th z.b.V. Oasis Battalion Staff.
After all, even though the 200th z.b.V. Engineer Battalion doesn't exist in this world, doesn't mean it can't go somewhere.

The 115th Artillery Regiment was distinct from the 115th Rifle Regiment, and in fact both had a second battalion that was sent to Africa.
In the case of II./115 AR, because only 1 of the three batteries actually crossed the Mediterranean safely and another was reconstituted with Italian artillery, I've nicknamed it "Half and Half" or "Halb und Halb".
It was a also designated both as motorized and as heavy, though when it arrived in Africa these statuses became more debatable.

German sources indicate the existence of 255th Anti-Tank Battalion as part of the Savona Division. I couldn't find a single mention of this anywhere else, so its likely an abberration.
If I had to guess, the German who wrote this heard of the 155th Machine Gun Battalion from the Savona and somehow managed to get both its number and its type wrong. What a bozo.
Alternatively, this could be the Anti-Tank coermpany of the same division, which was a smaller unit but had an authorized strength of 8 guns (the Germans list 12 guns but some were of different caliber).

To an outside observer, Italian artillery would seem quite obsolete. And I have marked them as obsolete in most orders of battle, because they were. Many guns dated back to the 19th century or to Austria-Hungary.
Furthermore, Italian artillery units were the same size (12 guns per battalion) as the equivalent German units. Meanwhile British field regiments of artillery had 24 guns.
That said, while weak, massed Italian artillery could still pack a real punch. For that reason I've kept them in on the updated orders of battle.
But their stats were certainly be worse than those of any other nation's artillery ,and by a significant margin. Especially in the British Cpature of Tobruk where they did little to nothing.

Some of the British tank battalion commanders are disputed among my sources. I do, however, know for certain that 6th Royal Tank Regiment was led by Lister.
Streitz was almost certainly not the commander of 200th z.b.V. Engineer Battalion since I've seen him mentioned as company commander in the 900th z.b.V. Engineer Battalion. But this isn't that important for this game.

[
    For Crusader`, I've decided to use the August 20, 1941 organization of the 90th Light Division (then called the Special Purpose Divisional Command "Afrika").
    Its only actual combat units were the 300th Oasis Battalion (just 2 companies) and the 3rd Battalion, 347th Infantry Regiment.
    I may also end up adding attached units to it from the Corps Troops or from 15th Panzer Division.

    It's not fully clear, but I believe this division must have been at the frontier, since III./I.R. 347 was guarding Halfaya in the interim (replaced by Bach/Ennecerus on October 26).
    Two of the oasis companies were there with it, the 6th and 12th, two were at the Tobruk salient, and the fifth was who knows where. All five would later end up at the frontier.
    The 10th Oasis Company was known to be at the frontier before Battleaxe, but afterward is unclear. The 6th Oasis Company is known to have been at Qalala for its defense.

    It took some time to build this division's order of battle in-game, since we're operating with some constraints here.
    Here's the original form from Lexikon der Wehrmacht:



    Divisionskommando z.b.V. Afrika 20. August 1941:

    Stab mit Divisions-Kartenstelle 259

    Bataillonsstab z.b.V. 300 mit 6. und 12. Oasen-Kompanie

    III. / Infanterie-Regiment 347

    1 Panzer-Divisions-Aufklärungs-Abteilung (im Wechsel)

    Nachrichten-Kompanie z.b.V. Afrika



    Translation:

    Special Purpose Divisional Command "Afrika" on August 20, 1941

    Staff with Divisional Mapping Detachment 259

    Special Purpose Battalion Staff 300 "Oasis" with 6th and 12th Oasis Companies

    3rd Battalion, 347th Infantry Regiment

    1 Panzer Division Reconnaissance Battalion (in rotation)

    Special Purpose Signals Company "Afrika"




    So how do I intend to implement this in my version?
    Well, the staff, mapping detachment, and signals troops aren't typically recorded as they aren't combat units, so we'll ignore them.
    The Oasis Battalion and 3rd Battalion, 347th Infantry Regiemnt will be in as normal.
    But what about the reconaissance? Here's my answer:
    Historically, there were 2 recon battalions for 3 divisions. So, 2/3 of a battalion per division. Now there's two divisions, to there should be 4/3 recon battalions.
    Therefore, the 33rd Reconaissance Battalion should be in as normal, and the Afrika Division should recieve 1/3 of a battalion, or a company - its own 580th Reconaissance Company!
    Because we don't do companies here, I ended up attaching that one to the Oasis Battalion.
    It also has a battalion attached from the 15th Panzer Division, but that's not in its normal organization so we can ignore it.
]

Meanwhile, Crusader`'s 15th Panzer Division is based on its September 20, 1941 organization. It's about what you'd expect, with two panzer battalions, four infantry in a brigade, and some support units.
To add a little flavor, though, I've given the 2nd Battalion, 33rd Artillery Regiment the "Half and Half" designation since it distinguishes the unit (as the designation's actual holder isn't present.)

Sonderverband 288, mid-reorganization but prior to becoming the Afrika-Grenadier-Regiment, had two mixed battalions, each with three companies, and a 7th company that acted as reconnaissance.
However, my sources indicating this are a little difficult to believe. I don't really see how this would've actually been accomplished given the mixed nature of the original Sonderverband companies.
Instead, I think it was basically in limbo as a pile of random companies until a single major reorganization took place that resulted in it somehow expanding to twelve companies strong.
Four made up each of two battalions, plus their were four additional support companies, making this Afrika Panzergrenadier Regiment quite powerful.
I don't think this happened until after First El Alamein or even into 1943, but I've had it happen just before the battle so the unit can reach its final form for the showdown.

Regio Esercito indicates that many of the Army Corps Artillery Regiments of the Italian army were actually formed from each other's depots. Here are some of them:
8th CAR (8,113,114): 22nd CAR (1,42,43)
10th CAR (7,17,35): 16th CAR (40,44,49), 25th CAR (105,130,148,150)
Niehorster, however, indicates that the 1st group of the 22nd CAR stayed in Italy. When the regiment arrived in Africa, it gained the 42nd and 43rd groups, plus some anti-air, but left the 1st group behind.
The 42nd group and 43rd group were likely not mobilized by the same depot and came from elsewhere, maybe even the G.a.F. There are later formations of these recorded but not in Africa and of different caliber.
The 10th CAR also appears reduced in Niehorster's order of battle, with its 7th group gone. I assume it was left in Italy as well or was sunk on transport. Niehorster also shows its 35th group as the 25th.
I'm inclined to believe this, since another source backs it up. I think this 7th group was lost and the 35th group was a typo on Regio Esercito.
After having found another mistake on Niehorster's artillery, this is now once again in contention. Regio Esercito has yet to be wrong so I'm going to side with it.
25th CAR was armed with 149/13 Austro-Hungarian howitzers built in 1914. They were obsolete for sure, but heavier than the rest.
Some time later, I've seen ever more mentions of XXV and none of XXXV. I'm starting to think Regio Esercito and its source book were the ones responsible for this mistake.

I've found an updated version of Montanari's order of battle for the above. In it, the 25th CAR is confirmed but I can also say with certainty what the 10th CAR had.
It had the 7th and 17th groups. So it was the 35th group that in fact got lost.
He also confirms that the 22nd CAR was greatly reduced and only two batteries were left by the time it got stuck in Tobruk.
But he does confirm that one is of 100/17 and the other is of 105/28. This 100/17 battery must be from the I group, the 105/28 could be 42 or 43.
He also indicates that the 26th artillery regiment sent its 1st group to the fortress where it was presumably destroyed.

The 20th (1,2,3,4,20) and 21st (1,2,3,4,21) were destroyed in North Africa and didn't have subsidiary elements.
10th, 22nd, and 25th CAR were all destroyed when they surrendered in Tobruk.
Navarini's XXI Corps would have the 16th and 24th CAR. Both seem to have survived to be destroyed in Tunisia.

I had a hard time finding any indication of where the 283rd and 284th artillery groups of the "Sabratha" artillery Raggruppamento came from, but I did it!
Both of them came from the 14th Frontier Guards Artillery Regiment's 28th Raggruppamento, which contained groups 281-284.

Wikipedia indicates that the Sirte Division at Tobruk had under its command a 51st Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company.
Given that the Sirte is the 61st Division and all of its other support subunits are numbered as the 61st, I'm gonna say this is a typo.
This is supported by the fact that the Sabratha Division, the 60th, happens to also have a Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company, and it's numbered as the 60th just like the division.
However, I've found evidence of a 53rd Company that was at Sicily despite the rest of the 53rd Division being in Yugoslavia.
This swings the needle for me on this one. I think it's reasonable with the 53rd in existence to say the 51st had done something similar previously (3 years previously in fact).

Some time later I've finally come to my independent conclusion on this. I have the following evidence:
I have no idea what happened to the 201st, 202nd, and 203rd companies. I can only assume the 202nd became the 22nd, while the 201st and 203rd were destroyed somewhere.
The 61st likely did exist. The 60th and 63rd did for sure, and were likely independently formed units sometime between June and December. I think it's reasonable for the 61st to be in the same boat.
On the other hand, I've lost trust that the 61st ever existed. The 51st Division "Siena" never went anywhere near Africa and there was no reason for it, a regular line division, to have a motorcycle company attached.
I think this is just a typo by Montanari. Other sources mention the 22nd and "various divisional companies" (maybe including the 61st) but no 51st.
Furthermore, Montanari himself mentions that Pitassi Mannella formed two reserve groups, each with one such motorcycle company. If the 51st was also there, where did it vanish off to?

Later evidence from Montanari makes me think the 22nd had nothing to do with the 202nd. He lists the 22nd as destroyed in Tobruk, but the 202nd as part of the Sabratha Division in Mid-January (p. 340).
The 201st was also there with the 202nd, and both were apparently near Giovani Berta at this time. This was on 10 January, but Tobruk had already been cut off at this time so they couldn't've been the same.
Strangely, though, the 55th Artillery Regiment is also there and we know that this unit did end up being destroyed in Tobruk, which doesn't make a whole lot of sense. Maybe its headquarters was out but the rest was in?
Another page mentions that the 60th company was missing 2 platoons but that the 201st company's 2 platoons were in the command reserve. This suggests a renaming took place.
With this one, I don't think it matters all that much, but either way, it's undecidable with the meager information I have now. Too bad!

Note to self: the 14th and 15th groups of the Raggruppamento Batterie Volanti were renamed and somewhat reformed from the old 1st and 3rd groups. They weren't completely new formations.
These batteries were mostly mediocre guns but had been mounted on captured British trucks. They didn't come from any other artillery unit so can't be amalgamated.

I am fairly certain that the Savona Division never had any tanks. Some tanks (13?) were alloted but they did not make it to Africa, being sunk on transport.
Some tanks do appear in Bardia by the end of Operation Crusader. I suspect that these were probably left behind by the Ariete Division during the Dash to the Wire.
They definitely didn't have a full tank battalion. I couldn't find a reference to one anywhere which suggests their set didn't have time to deploy.

The battery commanders of the 3rd South African Field Regiment were Harris, Berry, and Greenwood (7th-9th).

About the Italian Mixed Engineer battalions, I originally though had each division had its own battalion, giving the Italians a lot of engineer support.
However, I changed my mind about this when I realized that the "Mixed" part included signals units. Each battalion only actually represented a single company of "combat" engineers.
For a time, I combined all such engineers into a single company, but that wasn't right either. It didn't represent any kind of real-life unit and the companies were non-homogenous.
It didn't help that little information exists about most of these engineer companies, down to their numbers (only the battalions numbers are known).
With so little to go off of, indicating Italian divisional engineers (specialized ones notwithstanding) didn't do much of anything, I've finally made the decision to remove them altogether.

So I was entirely off on this. There was a single company of construction engineers "genio artieri" in each mixed engineer battalion, but these men were not for combat.
They were not armed with any kind of heavy weapons. The men who fulfilled the pioneer role that other nations' engineers complete were considered part of the infantry.

The Italian mixed support battalions had either three or four companies. However, it doesn't matter for this game, because the 4th company was an anti-air company and thus not relevant.
Thus, they will always be represented in-game with three companies: anti-tank, mortar, and machine gun.
The motorized divisions were distinct from others in that they never had any infantry guns. They were replaced with anti-tank guns in each regiment (probably the right decision).
German units did have infantry guns, even the motorized ones, but in the case of the 115th regiment its company was lost in transport and not replaced until 1942.

This does bother me, though, because later charts I've found tend to indicate that the organization was in fact meaningfully different, in that the divisional battalion didn't have a machine gun company.
I find this kinda hard to believe, given that the machine gun company had previously had 3 companies. Where did the 3rd one go? Maybe it became part of the bersaglieri regiments, but that seems weird to me.
A more reasonable guess is that the extra MGs were split up to provide replacements to lost infantry MGs or even to other divisions. A ton of machine guns were lost with the Bignami Column, after all.

The air crash that killed Vyvyan Pope prior to Operation Crusader is often discussed as doing significant damage to the operation. What is not often discussed is that it was a double disaster.
Russell, commander of 7th Armoured Brigade who had just been made Pope's chief of staff, also met his end. As we know, his replacements both in the brigade and in the staff position were not up to scratch.

The 4th "Genova Cavalleria" Machine Gunners Group was originally from the 36th Southeast Tripoli Border Guard sector and was already in Africa when the war began.
The unit was certainly not actually cavalry, had no armored cars, and wasn't some kind of special redeployment from the mainland. It was simply driven to join the Afrika and Savona divisions.
I believe the cavalry regiment depots had been responsible for the formation of numerous units, including its representative regiment, but also even dismounted units like this machine gun battalion.

Guardia Alla Fronteria artillery regiments weren't all the same. They had varying numbers of groups, each of which typically had 3 batteries but could have 2 (and possibly 4).
There were also some independent groups lying around, not subordinated to a specific regiment. And some GaF districts just didn't have any artillery.
In this game, the only GaF units present are the ones of the 28th "Zuara" district with the 280th regiment, and it does seem that all four of its groups had 3 batteries.
Of those four groups, two of these groups made up Raggruppamento Artiglieria "Sabratha" (the 283rd and 284th).

(Later Note)
Heh. Many, many hours later, I probably know a thousand times more about the G.a.F. then when I wrote the above^. None of it is wrong, but it's quite useless in retrospect.
I've also switched my focus onto another battle, which has a ton of GaF units involved, so that part is certainly now untrue.

King's Cross (Tobruk) is sometimes referred to as Sidi Mahmud. Just to add some confusion.
It doesn't help that Bir Lunes might actually be Bir Junes. And Ras el Madauar has a million spellings.

For some godforsaken reason, the two mortar companies, the 141st and 142nd, of the 64th "Catanzaro" Infantry Division, made it to Tobruk despite the division being destroyed at the camps and Bardia.
Regardless of how they got there, I'm going to attach them to the Blackshirt battalions as a sort of "ad-hoc" remnant of earlier destroyed units, but pretend they're independent rather than regimental.

The 140th Blackshirt Battalion was a part of the 238th Blackshirt Legion of the 2nd "28 Ottobre" Blackshirt Division.
It was formed using cadres from Salerno, which its nickname as a battalion. Its source territorial unit was nicknamed "Aquilia".
This territorial legion had formed two other battalions. The 240th was sent to Ethiopia but wasn't reformed in WW2. The 540th was kept in Italy as a militia unit.
The 238th regiment/legion had the nickname "Aurelio Padovani". This man was a previous fascist leader. It included 3 battalions and a machine gun company (but no regimental mortar company)
As a legion it was of the "Deposito" or depot variety, but as a battalion it was the "d'Assalto" or assault variety.
It appears that this battalion was the only survivor of the division which was otherwise destroyed in Bardia. It would end up in Tobruk where it, too, was destroyed.
There's a different blackshirt unit, the 130th, with the similar-sounding nickname of "L'Aquila".

Actually, I was wrong. The battalion was never at Bardia in the first place and was attached to the Sirte division from the start.
All the way back when the "28 Ottobre" Division moved to Bardia from its earlier position on the Tunisian border, it left this battalion (with half of its companies) in the Tobruk fortress or nearby.

CC.NN. battalions were called coorte (cohort) and companies were called centuria (century) but this applied only to the militia battalions in the territorial army.
Field-formed battalions were given normal designations in line with the army EXCEPT that regiments were still called legions.

III./I.R. 347 was relieved from its defensive position at Halfaya by I./S.R. 104 and Oasis elements on October 26, about a month before crusader.
I can't be sure, but it must have been reinforced by significant flak and artillery units or some Italian elements since this battalion was slightly short of weaponry (likely sunk on transport).
Interestingly, III./I.R. 155, formerly III./I.R. 268, was given instruction by the command based on lessons learned by the Schützen Regiments. Maythaler apparently didn't learn his lesson very well.

Something I've done out of convenience is to repeatedly ignore the Ras el Medauar salient in the southwest of the Tobruk defenses, held by German troops for much of the siege.
It was decided that the salient was too stalemated and not worth attacking in again, while the Australian and British units constantly harassed it with small-scale attacks.
If I did choose to model it, I would put I./S.R. 115 there to back up the various Italian units, for the Battleaxe campaign only.

Wikipedia doesn't list this, but the 18th Indian Infantry Brigade had the 121st Field Regiment, Royal Artillery when it was destroyed.
For this game it's gonna be replaced with the 3rd to reduce overhead. But this regiment/battalion certainly was there.

The Operation Compass Order of Battle on Wikipedia (from Montanari) lists a XXI Libyan Coastal Battalion as part of the Tobruk garrison at the start of the operation.
However, according to Niehorster, the battalion was part of the GaF and thus would be part of the 2300 that Montanari lists there.
But since Niehorster's OOB of the 32nd GaF sector's subsectors is incomplete, I have no way to verify this using the numbers.
Because of this lack of information, I'm just going to ignore this unit until I can find more on it.
Worse, I've later come accross some forum discussion that claims this unit was actually numbered as the XXXI and Montanari made a mistake.
At this point, I believe the unit isn't worth the ambiguity to include in my orders of battle. So, it won't be getting added.
Another source claims that only a single battalion of border guards was actually there. My guess is that the Libyan battalion was still in formation or not official, and thus wasn't counted.

Little to no damage was sustained by the Trento division during Operation Brevity, as its elements were either in Bardia (which wasn't attacked) or were late reinforcements.
The Italian units that were lost seem to all have been from the 8th Bersaglieri Regiment, though they fought hard and surrendered much less than the previous year. About one company was captured.

I considered giving the Germans access to a company of the "Diana" tank destroyer because I think the whole idea of it is cool: a captured soviet gun on a random truck.
The tank destroyer was a bit of a janky mess, had completely useless 4.5mm armor, and was generally not great. Nine were produced, all given to the 605th Anti-Tank Battalion.
Unluckily, I don't think the "Diana" nickname was ever actually given to the unit during this time. A later production run did use it but I don't think they made it to Africa.
Also, the nickname may have been given by the British and later adopted by the Germans, which complicates matters.
So, I think I'm not gonna end up adding this unit after all. It's for a battalion that doesn't exist and is historically quite unclear.
They also were not present for Crusader, arriving only in January 1942, though they did manage to participate in the battles after that.

For future reference, a standard Italian tank battalion has a much simpler structure than that of any other nation. There are 46 tanks total, in three companies of 15 each, and one command tank.
Each company had 3 platoons, with 5 tanks each. Later in the war, many companies would receive an additional radio-equipped tank to improve communications, but this wasn't active in 1940.

Niehorster lists an AS1940 autotransportable division as having 232 HMGs which I think is a frankly insane number.
It has 166 extra compared to the metropolitan type, but has only one extra machine gun battalion with companies that have just 12 HMGs each.
It's not fully clear, since some claims indicate that the machine gun battalions could have anywhere between 3-5 companies. The 155th for sure had at least 3, I don't know about the rest.

To reduce the confusion listed above about the state of the Guardia alla Frontiera at Tobruk, I'll compile what I know here:
1. The sectors responsible for the town were the 31st and 32nd. A few stragglers from elsewhere might've been but aren't recorded.
The sectors were intended to contain 1800 men each. However it appears only 2300 men actually showed up for the defense.
The XXI or XXXI Libyan Battalions may have been there, but it is entirely unclear which one or if either was actually there at all. These also might not be part of the GaF.
The 31st had 10 artillery groups and the 32nd had 12. This disagrees with Niehorster but I belive the mistake is over there.
The 31st had an engineer company that was surely real but might not have been in Tobruk when the battle began. The 32nd also had an engineer company but I cannot locate it.

If I had to guess, the 1800 men number was entirely theoretical. No sources indicate that anywhere near this number of infantry ever showed up (but maybe it includes artillerymen?)
Montanari gives this number on page 47 of "Operations in North Africa" but this dates back to the first half of 1940 and is no longer relevant by 1941.
The 2300 men seems not entirely unreasonable. If you include the 31st GaF Infantry Battalion, 21st/31st Libyan Coastal Battalion, both engineer companies, and lesser support, it about adds up.
It's probably also the 31st and not the 21st Battalion. Montanari is far from infallible and this type of mistake isn't uncommon, plus 31 is the number of the sector it's in.
The eastern sector was split into sub-sectors A and B. As we know from the western sector, 1 battalion manned each sub-sector, so there should've been two battalions worth of troops there.
In this case, I/69 or II/69 (the other was probably destroyed or depleted) defended one while the 31st Frontier Guard Infantry Battalion defended the other.
The Libyan battalion is supposedly "coastal" so I don't think it would've ended up deployed on the outer ring; it would've been on, well, the coast. I also don't know its structure or even its number.

Later sources dispute the above ^. In fact it appears both of the battaslions were on the frontline. And it WAS the 31st, not the 21st.
He indicates the following frontier guard artillery structure as well:
XXXI:
    Infantry battalion with 3 static machine gun companies and one gun company
    5th Group: 232bis, 242, 243
    6th Group: 230bis, 231bis
    7th Group: 237, 239, 244, 245 (all heavy)
XXXII:
    1st Group: 248, 249, 258
    2nd Group: 246, 246bis, 258bis
    3rd Group: 240bis, 247, 247bis
    4th Group: 236bis, 240, 241 (had personnel only at in june 1940 but received 77/28 by 1941)
5th Artillery Regrouping (idk)
6th Artillery Regrouping (31st Group)
7th Artillery Regrouping (30th Group)
31st Libyan Coastal Battalion

(The above was provided by J. Leser. I don't think his reading was very thorough as I strongly disagree with the above.)

Regio Esercito claims that the 31st GaF sector had an infantry battalion of the following structure:
XXXI Battaglione Fanteria Guardia alla Frontiera
    3 compagnie mitraglieri da posizione
    1 compagnia cannoni da 37/10
(3 static machine gun companies, 1 cannon (probably anti-tank gun) company)
As stated previously, there was probably a Libyan battalion there. A typical Libyan battalion had 4 infantry companies, but this battalion seems to be of special design, so I can't confirm.

Apparently a lot of Italian divisions in North Africa actually had two mortar companies per regiment rather than one.
It is difficult for me to verify this, however, and only Regio Esercito's order of battle for 10 June actually reflects this.
Some of these regiments also show up with four infantry battalions which I don't think was ever actually implemented, which further leads me to believe this didn't take place.
Based on later information, my best explanation for this is that this was the planned organization for an upgraded Type 1940 AS division, but with manpower and mortar shortages, this was never implemented.

Don't be an idiot like me. Compagnia in Italian is the singular, not the plural, form of company.

The Trento division's 2 anti-airctaft batteries were numbered the 412th and 414th. I have no information regarding the batteries of any other division.

I thought Umberto Barberis was the commander of the 69th Infantry Regiment. This was wrong. He was actually commander of the GaF of XXI Corps.
This confuses me a bit since I don't understand why the GaF would be subordinated to a corps, especially one that wasn't there.
I think that this position (commander of GaF XXI Corps) was transferred to the XXII Corps at some point but this wasn't recorded.
Anyway, he was captured with Pitassi Mannella, Della Mura, and Vietina when the fortress fell.

I struggle to find much information on the individual batteries and regiments of the Royal Artillery and Royal Horse Artillery, and of imperial artillery forces.
It appears that RHA regiments began the war with only 16 guns each and RA regiments had 24 but at times RHA regiments had as much as 36.

One battalion of replacements, the 64th "Catanzaro", ended in Tobruk during its fall, according to at least one source that I trust.
However, we don't do field replacement units here, so that fact is staying in this notes page forever.
We also don't do anti-air units here, and there were a couple: 15th Anti-Air Group with 2 batteries, and 1 battery of machine anti-air assigned to the 4th Tank Infantry Regiment.

All the replacement units of the 60th-64th divisions were placed in assorted locations in Cyrenaica.
The 60th and 61st were with their divisions, the 64th was in Tobruk, the 63rd was around Benghazi, and the 62nd was somewhere around Tobruk.

The only source regarding the numbering of the bersaglieri motorcycle companies is the historically quite unreliable Montanari.
I don't have any other choice so I'll take his word on the 51st and 22nd not being the 61st (bis) and 202nd, but this is still quite suspicious to me.
But since there's a solid 6 months for these reorganizations to take place during which I have no other evidence on the matter, I can't really do much about it.
I do have one other source that claims the existence of a 22nd but lacks any kind of date. It helps but not by much.

Montanari lists a 26th Artillery Raggruppamento at Tobruk, but this couldn't've been the 26th CAR because that unit never formed a 100/17 group, contradicting him.
It might have been the 26th "Pavia" Artillery Regiment, but without further evidence I'm gonna have to discard this unit out of hand.

The 30th and 31st artillery groups of the GaF appear to have been formed by the depot of the 11th Artillery Regiment GaF but were parcelled out to other regiments/raggruppamenti during the war.
Both were in Tobruk under what seem like random regiments (the 6th and 7th, haha).

Somehow he is never mentioned a single time, but the commander of the 2nd Support Group during Sonnenblume was a Brigadier Henry Latham.

In its original form, 33rd Panzer Pioneer Battalion had 3 companies, with the 2nd detached, and the 3rd with some tanks attached to it.
These tanks disappear by September. I believe they were used to replace losses in the panzer regiments. This change will be reflected in some orders of battle.

Ignoring naval batteries (which couldn't be moved to the perimeter), including frontier guard ones (which could), and ignoring anti-air guns (which were probably not at the perimeter), here's what Montanari placed inside:

D.f «Sirte»
-43º regg. artiglieria
—I gruppo da 100/17
—II gruppo 75/27
—III gruppo da 75/27

10º ragg. di artiglieria
-VII gruppo da 100/17
-XVII gruppo da 105/28

22º ragg. di artiglieria
-btr. da 100/17
-btr. da 105/28

25º ragg. di artiglieria
-CXXX gruppo da 149/13
-CV gruppo da 149/13
-CXLVIII gruppo da 149/13
-CL gruppo da 149/13

26º ragg. di artiglieria
-I gruppo da 100/17

55º regg. artiglieria per divisione fanteria
-I gruppo da 100/17
-II gruppo da 75/27
-III gruppo da 75/27

Raggruppamento est (XXXI settore di copertura della G.a.F.)
-XXXI ragg. artiglieria m.c. G.a.f.
—5º gruppo (btr. 232bis da 105/28; 242, 243 da 120/25)
—6º gruppo (btr. 230bis, 231bis da 120/25)
—7º gruppo (btr. 238, 239, 244, 245 da 149/35)

Raggruppamento ovest (XXXII settore di copertura della G.a.F.)
-XXXII ragg. artiglieria G.a.f.
—1º gruppo (btr. 248, 249, 258 da 77/28)
—2º gruppo (btr. 246, 246bis, 258bis da 77/28)
—3º gruppo (btr. 240bis, 247, 247bis da 77/28)
—4º gruppo (btr. 236bis, 240, 241 da 77/28)

5º ragg. artiglieria G.a.F.
(Montanari didn't put anything, maybe there just weren't any units assigned)

6º ragg. artiglieria G.a.F.
-XXXI gruppo da 120/25

7º ragg. artiglieria G.a.F.
-XXX gruppo da 149/35

That's a total of 20 groups, plus 2 spare batteries, totaling 248 guns. He later gives a number of 340, which probably includes anti-tank, anti-air, naval, etc.

Painfully, Wikipedia refers to the 2 raggruppamenti (east and west) as simply "2 groups" which greatly undersells the actual strength (29 batteries, not 6).
This is a translation issue but it really is a problem around this kind of thing. Translating the Italian sources isn't done very well, to be fair most sources were only opened long after the war itself.

Montanari and Regio Esercito, however, disagree about the exact structure of the GaF batteries and groups. Montanari's OOB is above but Regio Esercito claims that all the groups were renumbered prior to destruction.
I'm inclined to trust Regio Esercito much more on this one since it's based on war diaries. Montanari's one for the 31st and 32nd regroupings appears to be copied from June 10 and doesn't reflect wartime changes.
Welp, time to make a million more changes. For the big one, of course, I've lost most interest in the small one.

I'm going to hazard a guess for the confusing setup of some of Montanari's artillery. The XXX and XXXI gruppi don't appear anywhere else with the same guns (the 120/35 is very rare, the 149/35 less so).
There is a mention of a different XXX and XXXI gruppo, however these were formed in 1939, and the 1940 order of battle lists neither as having the 120/25 gun.
This makes me think that the XXXI and XXX gruppi he speaks of are actually the 6th and 7th gruppi from the 31st sector, renamed (the XXX might be from elsewhere, I'm not sure).
This makes more sense, given these are labelled under the 6th and 7th "Raggruppamenti" Artiglieria G.a.F., units I couldn't find anywhere else.
There are mentions of such units in Regio Esercito, labelled under the 6th and 7th Army Artillery Regiments, but neither of them actually had an XXX or XXXI group sent to Africa.
The 2 groups left sector 31 and were scheduled to leave but didn't get the chance to. At the same time, the 31st received 3 replacement battalions from the 32nd.
The 32nd then received replacements of its own that are of mixed caliber but their exact nature is not recorded. This amounted to 2 groups of mixed caliber.
Since the details of these units is pretty much unknowable, there is little I can do.

I probably could've guessed this, but the position of Zaafran's name in Arabic translates to "Saffron".

Apparently this isn't common knowledge, but all former "cavalry" units in the British Army had a standard establishment of 3 squadrons.
This includes both tank (RTR) units and the less regular "Hussar" units.

The Libyan Parachute Battalion "Black Devils" and National Libyan Parachute Battalion are different units. They were, respectively, the first and second battalions of a regiment-sized force.

According to one source, the XXXI Frontier Guard Sector had a total of 29 batteries:
16 77/28
1 105/28
7 120/25
1 149/12
4 149/35

(This has now been discredited. Ignore this.)

My setup (30th and 31st groups are approximate to meet the above specifications, the others are known):

301st Group (3 77/28)
302nd Group (3 120/25)
245th Bis Battery (1 149/12)

311th Group (3 77/28)
312th Group (1 105/28, 2 120/25)
313th Group (4 77/28)
314th Group (3 77/28)

321st Group (3 77/28)
322nd Group (4 149/35)
323rd Group (2 120/25)

Old:
30th Group (3 77/28)
31st Group (3 120/25, 1 149/12)

For some reason, while the average Italian anti-tank company had 8 guns, the anti-tank company of the 31st GaF Infantry Battalion had 23!
This unit was just generally oversized. Its 3 machine gun companies, which logically would have several hundred men, actually had 611 machine guns.
They were of the Schwarzlose type, meaning each one needed a three-man crew. I have no idea how a regular battalion managed to do this.

The "Volontari della Libia" blackshirt battalion was formed a few days after the war began, and as its name suggests was formed from various volunteers from Libya.
It was numbered the 2nd and was formed from one company from each of the existing CC.NN. Libyan legions. Designations:
1st Company: Tripoli, 2nd Company: Misurata, 3rd Company: Bengasi, 4th Company: Derna
Based on this, I don't think there was any kind of heavy company in the unit, rather all four companies were identical (and not very large).
It probably had some kind of machine guns or mortars, but given the lack of a heavy company and its ad-hoc establishment, any weapons can't be known.
The idea to form the unit was from Alberto Venturelli, but its commander in combat was Giovanni Rocca.
Also, apparently this mess: "1a 2'Y4°" translates to "1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th" from Italian.
By the way, I don't believe the personnel came from the existing legions, the existing legions just served as formation places. There are records of new recruits forming this unit.
So, it's training and experience were probably even more lackluster than a typical blackshirt unit, and there were few heavy weapons. Truly an impressive fighting force.

Important - these were formed from Italian men, not Libyans. They just happened to be living in Libya and thus could only amass the men to form 4 legions.

The companies that formed it were from the 4 existing colonial legions. These were formed in 1935 and were named after the locations they were formed in.
Prior to this, there were only 3 legions, one each for Tripolitania, Cyrenaica, and Fezzan. Their designations were "Oea" and "Berenice" (3rd unknown).

Guardia alla Frontiera engineers were mostly responsible for the maintenance of fortifications. They seem to have some combat ability but they were by all means "mixed".
Some sources indicate they consisted exclusively of communications and operators, and lacked any real combat element.
I think for this reason they'll be removed from my orders of battle, just like the rest of the mixed engineer battalions.
Or maybe not. I'll have to think about this over the next few days, since I don't have a replacement company-sized unit ready.
After having learned about the utterly uneven sizes of GaF units, I think I'll keep it in. Even if only part of it (it's "mixed" after all) was combat engineers, it's still a roughly company-sized portion.

I later have turned around on this idea. The engineers are actually separate from the other GaF numbers which are only for infantry.
I was certainly trolling when I went through this the first time anyway. These engineers were entirely for support tasks and had no combat ability.
The same also goes for the regular engineer units, as while some did have partial combat ability, the only specialized assault engineers, the Guastatori, were never divisional in nature.
There were also sometimes artillery engineers, which I hadn't noticed until now. These guys were certainly not meant to be anywhere near a frontline.
(Note: this is not true, there were no artillery engineers. This is due to the translation on Bing being terrible, as the term "artieri" actually translates to "builders" or "artisans".)

I have finally obtained the original text of Montanari's writing on the defense of Tobruk. This has been a long time coming.
I didn't buy it, obviously. There's a copy on the website Issuu, although it appears to be "unavailable".
There's a solution to this. Before the "unavailability" kicks in, there's a few frames where the original text is readable. Just take a screenshot!
So, here's the OOB from pages 331-333:



Garrison on December 9, 1940:

Guardia alla Frontiera
-Eastern Libyan Command
--Tobruk Fortress Command

31st Coverage Sector (2 Subsectors)
-242nd Battery / XXXI/5 (4 120/25)
[Note that in an unexplainable way Rostagno writes "31st Coverage Sector (Minus 2 Strongpoints)" again]
[I think this is a mistake that covers up the real units of the XXXI/6 group that were here]
-244th Battery / XXXI/7 (4 149/35)
-245th Battery / XXXI/7 (4 149/35)

Elements of the 32nd Coverage Sector
-246th Battery / XXXII/2 (4 77/28)
-247th Battery / XXXII/3 (4 77/28)
-249th Battery / XXXII/1 (4 75/06)

(My) Notes:
In the original text this is a mess, in fact the title card "31st Coverage Sector" is duplicated (solution noted above)
Also I'm completely wrong above. He didn't say "2 subsectors", but rather "minus two strongpoints"

Training Battery "Derna" (4 75/06)

1 47/32 Gun

3rd Company, 62nd Replacements Battalion

64th Replacements Battalion

31st Libyan Coastal Battalion

63rd Prison Company

(My Notes):
The translation on this unit is quite poor. While its name when brute forced looks like something used to guard prisoners, that's not the case.
The original term "Presidiaria" instead refers to a generic multiple-purpose garrison unit.

31st Mixed Engineer Detachment

(My) Notes:
This seems to be incredibly incomplete. The coverage sectors don't have many assigned units or infantry.
The 75/06 is probably the 75/27 Mod. 06
I've also later concluded that I screwed up with the translation of "reparto" in all of my older OOBs, this one included (it actually means "unit", not "detachment")



XXII Army Corps elements that joined the garrison on December 10, 1940:

XXII Army Corps HQ (Various Elements)

22nd Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company

Blackshirt Battalion "Volontari della Libia"
(This is not enclosed in quotations for some reason. I think this makes no sense but it least it appears consistent. To be fair, this was the unit name, not the nickname.)

Sirte Division (Various Elements)

10th Corps Artillery Regrouping/Regiment
-VII Group (100/17)
-XVII Group (105/28)
-I/26th Group (100/17)
-I/55th Group (100/17)

22nd Corps Artillery Regrouping/Regiment
-I Group (100/17)
-1st Battery (105/28)
-13th Battery (8 20/65 AA)
-Provisional (Provvisoria) Company (6 47/32)
-10th Company of Artillery Specialists

25th Corps Artillery Regrouping/Regiment
-CV Group (149/13)
-CXXX Group (149/13)
-CXLVIII Group (149/13)
-CL Group (149/13)

Services
-55th Signals Company
-Various Elements



Elements of the 61st "Sirte" Division on December 10, 1940

Division HQ (Various Elements)

51st (Likely 61st) Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company

69th Infantry Regiment (3 Battalions of 4 Companies Each, 1 Support Battery)
70th Infantry Regiment (As Above)

"Solothurn" Shotgun Section
(I got baited by Google Translate. "Fuciloni" just translates to "large guns", not "shotguns")
(In this case, these are the Solothurn S-18/1000 anti-tank rifle)

61st Anti-Tank Company (8 47/32)

61st Mortar Company (6 81/14)

61st Machine Gun Battalion (3 Companies)

61st Replacements Battalion

43rd Artillery Regiment
-I Group (100/17)
-II Group (75/27)
-III Group (75/27)
-1 Battery (20/65 AA)

61st Mixed Engineer Battalion
-61st Signals Company (previously just called "Communications Company", clarified)
-Combat Engineer Company
-Searchlight Section

Services
-Various Elements

Note: Another Shotgun Section and another Mortar Company were transferred to the Babini Group
(Same, the Solothurn was an anti-tank rifle, not a shotgun)
(I don't know what the number of the mortar company would have been. Shouldn't an AS 1940 division have two mortar companies of regimental numbers?)
(My) Note: The translation is imperfect but I think these were separate units, not the ones above



Units assigned to reinforce the Tobruk garrison after December 10, 1940

25th Anti-Tank Company (6 47/32)

140th Blackshirt Battalion
-Command Company
-2 Rifle Companies

4th Tank Infantry Regiment
-1st Medium Tank Battalion (39 M11/39)
-63rd Light Tank Battalion (32 L3/33)
-1 Battery (6 20/65 AA)

15th Anti-Aircraft Group (3 Batteries 75/46 AA)

10th Battery of the 20th Corps Artillery Regrouping/Regiment (8 20/65 AA)

141st Mortar Company (0! 81/14)
142nd Mortar Company (0! 81/14)

55th Artillery Regiment
-(I Group already deployed)
-II Group (75/27)
-III Group (75/27)
-1 Battery (65/17 Infantry Guns)

8th Labor Battalion

1 Delaying (Combattimenti di Arresto) Company

Mine Engineer Detachment

Services
-Various Elements



Changes Entailed:

Umberto Barberis's formation renamed "Piazza/Fortress Tobruch/Tobruk" or "XXII Corps GaF Command"

GaF Artillery:
    Swap 312th and 313th Group

    321st->322nd->323rd->321st Groups Rotated
    New 323rd Group Given 245th Bis Battery
    New 321st Group Given 1 Battery From New 323rd Group

I/55 AR subordinated to 10th CAR

22nd CAR had:
Full strength I group
1st battery (from 42nd or 43rd, idk)
Provisional anti-tank company

61st AT Company had 8
25th AT Company had 6

140th Blackshirt Battalion had only 2 rifle companies

141st and 142nd Mortar Companies were unarmed

55th Artillery Regiment had a 65/17 battery



General Berti had pretty high demands for Pitassi Mannella's defense, believing he had access to much more firepower than he actually did.
He ordered, for example, 100 anti-tank guns to be deployed on the front, with 4 more in reserve and 16 or more mobile. There were probably actually only 80 or less total.
But at the very least, Berti had the right idea about how the battle should be fought. He wasn't completely incompetent in this regard, though he probably should've been little more realistic.

Also, he claims there were only 198 artillery pieces in the fortress, not 343.
This lines up with the British claim of 208 pieces captured. Maybe the extra 10 were stragglers or inoperable so Berti didn't count them.
Strangely, his number of 198 states it doesn't include 120mm or 149mm guns but does include 20mm guns. So for these to line up the number of 120mm and 149mm guns must be 145.
According to my data, the GaF had 12 batteries of these calibers and the regular army the same number, totaling 96 guns. Not far off, but something is clearly wrong.

Later findings on GaF artillery below:
I think Montanari was trolling with two of his labelled units. The 31st/6th and 30th/7th units were probably actually the 6th/31st and 7th/31st.
This makes things a lot simpler. The 6th/31st had 2 batteries of 120/25 (230th bis, 231st bis, both static) and the 7th/31st we've already seen with 4 batteries of 149/35 (238, 239, 244, 245, all static).
This typo is honestly pretty catastrophic compared to the rest. So I guess these two units really were just aberrations.

We know for certain that some actual infantry of Italian origin were there since they were captured and weren't from the Libyan Battalion.
The existence of a battalion is also mentioned here: https://italianiinguerra.wordpress.com/2024/01/22/africa-settentrionale-22-gennaio-1941-gli-australiani-prendono-tobruch/.
Obviously, this may be the Libyan battalion, but since it's mentioned as part of the Frontier Guard and not as Libyan, this seems quite unlikely to me.
A different man who was killed there is mentioned in another source which refers to him as an "infantryman", not an artilleryman. And of course he wasn't Libyan.
This is missing from the above data, from Montanari suggesting its at least somewhat incomplete. It also doesn't mention many artillery units.
My guess is that at the very least, the XXXI GaF Infantry Battalion was probably there. Otherwise, there would barely even be a frontline in the eastern sector.

However if or if not any artillery was there is hard to say. Outside of the 6 batteries above (242, 244, 245, 246, 247, 249), none are directly mentioned.
He later also mentions the existence of 2 "raggruppamenti" but no sizes for them are described. He also doesn't include anything about their numbering.
And to be more unhelpful, his map is wrong and only actually shows the locations of two groups, which lines up with the size of 6 batteries.

It's happened! I've obtained exact artillery numbers. Once again my tertiary sources have drained the detail Montanari provides.
He lists:

Army:
48 75/27
12 75/46
3 76/30
(I initially thought this was a typo for 76/40, but I now know that the 76/30 was a distinct, albeit obscure, weapon)
(In fact, the 76/30 was a shortened version of the 76/40 that was used on some ships, or in this case, the "Vittoria" battery, probably)
2 77/28
63 100/17
16 105/28
12 120/25
4 120/45
1 149/12
48 149/13
11 149/35
Total: 220

Army Support:
42 20/65 AA
10 77/? (Probably 77/28)
1 76/40
11 75/? (Probably 75/27)
13 65/17
43 47/32
39 37/? (in the tanks)
Total: 120

Naval:
8 149/17
18 102/35
16 76/40

San Giorgio:
4 254/30
4 190/45

Layout:

Eastern Group:
I/26
XXXI/5th GaF (or Mixed GaF Group)
CXXX/25 Corps
CL/25 Corps
2/XV AA

Central Group:
II/43
III/55
CV/25 Corps
CXLVIII/25 Corps
XXXI/6th GaF
XXXI/7th GaF
1/XV AA
Naval: Nembo, Buffolotto

Western Group:
VII/10 Corps
XVII/10 Corps
I/55
II/55
III/43
3/XV AA
1 "Batteria Mista" of the 22nd Corps
Naval: Vittoria

Apparently also in the West:
I/43
I/22
Mixed/Composite/22

(Again, I think he has the GaF sets backward)

Mobile Reserve:

22nd and 61st (Ha! I was right!) Bersaglieri Motorcycle Companies
2 Companies of 1/69 (1 & 3)
2 20/65 Batteries
Company of 7 Tanks (known to be organized as a company rather than a platoon because of Montanari p.189)
A bunch of small machine gun and anti-tank units

Other Notes:

2/69 was in the frontline, not 1/69
2/69 had 1 company of 1/69 with it

Extra anti-tank guns were training units
The 64th replacements battalion with 2 companies (the third detached?) was sent to occupy the Beiad position
Naval 76/40 gun and mortars (probably 141st and 142nd) were assigned to reinforce 3/69 in the reserve line
It also had some machine gunners and a platoon of the 140th Blackshirt Battalion
A bunch (4) of training SQUADS formed a reserve at the Piave point. This is so small that it's negligible.
I'll probably end up replacing this messed-up garrison with a random spare company I have lying around from the 69th Infantry.
Pt. 144 (manned by 140th CC.NN.) had a battery of artillery (75/27) and some light (heavy support infantry company, not mortar company) mortars
Pilastrino had one company of the 61st MG battalion, and 12/70, with some bonus light weapons
The other 2 (with some extra MGs) were on the western sector's frontline or in reserve close to it
Gabr el Abd had the 61st replacement battalion with one regular company and one heavy company (oh yeah replacement battalions have those now)
q. 71 (near Airente I think) had 2 companies of the XXXI Libyan Coastal Battalion and a couple light machine and anti-tank guns
It also had 2 77/28 guns attached to it. This was probably half of the 246th or 247th battery, GaF
The other company of XXXI Libyan and the third company of the 64th replacements battalion were on coastal defense duty
But some of them were also deployed if necessary to defend the line between the Airente q.71 position and the sea
It appears that the support companies of the rifle battalions were typically spread out among the toher three companies
The 141st and 142nd mortar companies were attached to Barberis's frontline but since they had no mortars with them they were probably used as infantry
The defense of the port was conducted with the depots of the GaF, 116th "Marmarica" Infantry Regiment, some carabinieri, and the 3rd Company of the 62nd Replacement Battalion

I can't find the locations of any of the supposed new naval batteries "Vittoria", "Nembo", "Buffolotto" (section, probably the 149/35 guns)
Actually these guns have been located based on his map. The Buffolotto section is also confirmed to consist of 2 149/35 guns, originally G.a.F. but crewed by naval personnel.

Map:
https://archive.org/details/la-prima-offensiva-britannica-in-africa-settentrionale-ott.-1940-feb.-1941/La%20prima%20offensiva%20britannica%20in%20africa%20settentrionale%20%28ott.1940-feb.1941%29%20schizzi/page/n41/mode/2up

Composite order of battle of GaF artillery:

XXXI Raggruppamento Artiglieria GaF:
    V/Mixed Group:
        (I think it was just the V group but had mixed caliber which confused Montanari)
        232 Bis (105/28)
        242 (120/25)
    VI Group:
        230 Bis (120/25)
        231 Bis (120/25)
    VII Group:
        244 (149/35)
        245 (149/35)
    Front Support:
        246th Battery (77/28)
        247th Battery (77/28)
        249th Battery (75/27)
    Training Battery (2 77/28, 1 149/12)

A section of 149/35 guns also appears on some maps. I believe this had 2 guns and was deployed at Hagfet Umm Haleiga.

It's clear to me that the V, VI, and VII groups were present. Two of them are directly mentioned by Montanari and while the V group isn't, its calibers match exactly with his "mixed" group.
I can't say the same for the front support batteries, they aren't diretly shown. However, the gun numbers strongly imply that they were there (maybe disbanded to provide front reinforcement).

I watched a video on the North African campaign here:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Odk0Cp2D_fU&t=448s

I didn't think the video was all that good, and thus left the following corrections:

6:42 The 1st South African Brigade is shown taking Bir el Gubi (point marked south of Tobruk) from the Italian 132nd Division. This didn't happen, and Bir el Gubi would only fall to a different Commonwealth force.
8:14 The 1st South African Brigade was also not here. It had been swapped with the 22nd Guards Brigade and was only responsible for defending British supply depots.
8:26 The 7th Armoured Brigade wasn't in is operation. The brigade had been nearly destroyed previously and had given up its remaining tanks to the other two brigades.
10:51 The Free French Brigade at Bir Hacheim wasn't destroyed until much later in the battle. Only the 150th Brigade had been destroyed at this point and some of the minefields cleared.
11:02 The 9th Indian Infantry Brigade (shown in Tobruk) was part of the force used for the attack (Operation Aberdeen). It also took high losses during this operation and retreated afterward, so it wasn't captured in Tobruk as shown in the video.
11:38 The South African troops on the coast did not retreat in the same direction as the British 50th Division to the south. They escaped along the coast, through Tobruk, instead.
13:43 Only 50% of the Italian 60th "Sabratha" Division was overrun and the rest of it was able to counterattack and restore the situation. The division was disbanded by Rommel after the battle, not destroyed by the attack.
14:57 The 185th "Folgore" Division had started off as a parachute division, but the symbol on the map is wrong as it had been converted to a regular infantry division by this point.

The research could've been better and I also dislike the perpetuation of some tropes, namely the obsession with tanks and the refusal to admit the times when Italian troops did show promise.

At Bardia, there was a XVII group of 75/27 guns. I have no idea where this came from, but it wasn't from the 10th CAR since that one was of 105/28 guns.

Strangely, Montanari's maps only show the existence of two companies of the 2nd Battalion, 70th Infantry Regiment.
I want to assume those are the 5th and 6th companies, since the Italians didn't consider the support company of each battalion to be a position-holding unit (rather it was broken up to support the others).
Perhaps the other company had been transferred to the 3rd/69th battalion, since Montanari refers to that one as having been "reinforced".

Some claims give Pitassi Mannella control over 62 light tanks but only 25 medium tanks (of 11/40?). I don't think this tank even exists and this claim is quite frankly absurd.

The frontier guard infantry battalions confuse me because there's only a single one in existence in Africa. There are also six in Albania (numbered 1-6), but none in the Italian mainland.
Since the 31st was the only one in the entirety of Africa, I think we can be a bit less assumptive about its structure since so there's no comparable units. I honestly think it's possible that this single battalion contained all 2300 men Montanari mentions.
Which is starting to make more sense, as it's said that this force had 600 machine guns and 23 anti-tank guns. A normal battalion couldn't handle that much firepower, even if most of it was dug into the defenses and non-maneuverable.
In fact, a different kind of Italian machine gun company at this time had 10 Schwarzlose and 13 Breda 30s, from 161 troops. So 3 such companies would have 70 total machine guns. How did 600 get there, then?

However, I do have reason to believe that the GaF had an abnormally large density of such weapons since it was large immobile.
THe initial strength of the GaF in Europe was 21,000 men from 27 sectors, with 6000 machine guns and several thousand regular guns.
So if 21,000 men, many of whom were artillerists had 6000 machine guns, I guess its reasonable for a single battalion structure to have so many guns (many of which probably were never fired).
The GaF later had 50,000 men by June 1940, but this rapid increase was accomplished primarily by adding 22 CC.NN. battalions and didn't reflect much increase in actual organic GaF strength.

Based on how the coverage sectors were organized, artillery would've been split up. Some would've been placed under the command of each fortification and others under a sectoral command.
I think in Tobruk's case the larger guns were in sectoral positions while the smaller guns were placed inside each fortification and weren't mobile.
However, no maps I have show these guns in place, and in fact Montanari only mentions 2! 77/28 guns in the entire fortress.

With the number 2300 as the only thing of value in my possession, I'm gonna have to make even more assumptions. No quality book on this topic exists.
The 31st Infantry Battalion GaF was probably actually a battalion in size. It had an insane amount of firepower, but was highly static and thus could accept such establishment.
Adding the two engineer units and the 31st Libyan Coastal Battalion, we get pretty close to 2300, which makes me think the 1800 x 2 number also includes artillery.
This implies that the difference of 1300 was the number of artillerymen. A standard Italian artillery regiment of 9 batteries, 36 guns had 82 officers and 2687 men.
So that means that the 1300 difference was probably 4-6 batteries, the same ones that Montanari mentions in his late order of battle. But then how did more guns just show up in his map?
Disregard the above. I've re-read some things and I was certainly not on the mark with those statements.

Montanari actually puts a total of 3300 men in Tobruk in June, 1500 in the XXXI sector and 1800 in the XXXII sector (infantry). By december only 2300 men remain total.
I assume this was the full XXXI sector (in its infantry battalion) and 800 men in the XXXII sector (location unknown). We could give each sector 2 subsector companies to represent this.
But the issue with this is that the exactual structure of the subsectors is something I can't reasonable figure out. They also varied from a single machine gun company to several plus fortress units.
Since the town was one big fortress, there's no reason for the GaF to have additional sub-fortress units. But how many machine gun companies were there is something I can't calculate.

I thought this made sense, but then I read that the XXXII sector, under the Barberis command, had its own machine gun battalion. Maybe this was the Libyan battalion?
Since I don't have anything else to go off of, and the battalion was after all part of the XXXII sector, I guess it had machine guns now. But this wasn't part of its name, so I wouldn't execute on this.
Apparently there was also a 32nd Libyan Battalion in Tobruk according to some sources? But these claims are relatively unreliable so I wouldn't lend too much credence to that claim.
Also not helping is that Montanari never references a single unit as being part of this subsector other than the few artillery batteries. So maybe it just didn't exist by this point or was in the process of dissolution.

A forum post says the 12th battery of the 42nd "Sabratha" Artillery Regiment was supposed to be one of its 20/65 batteries, but Regio Esercito says it had the 60th and 260th batteries
There was also supposedly a 4th battery from the Bologna Division, which also doesn't make a lot of sense since this was before the division was partially reconstituted with a ton of random units.

Carlo Rostagno was the chief of staff of the 22nd Corps for most of December, but at some point he must have been replaced. Montanari refers to him as "former".
He is the ultimate source for most of my Tobruk order of battle information. I haven't found much that indicates him to be unreliable, at least not as badly as Montanari for sure.
Instead, it is Adolfo de Leone, Brigadier General, who is listed as having held this position, starting sometime in January, that was captured.
It does appear that Rostagno was also captured, but not listed elsewhere as he was a colonel, not a general. Meanwhile Brigadier Virginio Villanis, 10th Army Chief of Artillery, might have also been there.
Rostagno, just like Di Giorgis, would return to Italy after the war and enjoy a fairly successful end to his career leading a branch of the Italian military, in this case the Guardia alla Finanza.
Other than the order of battle, Rostagno's reports also included details about the security of the fortress, and how the British had undertook significant aerial reconnaissance against it.

However Montanari lists Leone as commander of the artillery, not Virginio Villanis. Since I only have two sources about this, they are in disagreement, and one is notoriously unreliable, not much I can do.
I disagree though. Villanis is mentioned later as leading some kind of column during the Mechili-Beda Fomm campaign. He didn't have a reason to be in Tobruk anyway, that place was hopeless.
Just like Bergonzoli, Villanis would lead one of several columns ordered to conduct the retreat of the remainder of 10th Army. Both were captured.
Barberis was captured too, shortly after the fall of the El Adem / Sidi Mahmud position, which his headquarters, along with two regimental headquarters, had been located at.

Notes on total numbers:
22,000 men given by most Italian sources
2,000 sailors (not counted by above)
25,000 British claim total
The 1,000 difference is probably negligible or a rounding error.

The British 3rd Armoured Brigade has no insignia. It just doesn't. I guess if the unit didn't survive to a specific point in the war, it just never receives such identification.

Also found some more notes on what RECAM was doing. It started the battle in the rear in Cyrenaica, and had to spend a week to move forward.
It then patrolled the area between Bir el Gubi and El Adem providing some support to the Ariete and Pavia divisions. After Ariete moved, RECAM took its place.
It also made some minor attacks against the New Zealanders but was attacked by German aircraft. After holding off the Indians at Bir el Gubi again, it became combat incapable and had to retreat.
Other than the 52nd Tank Battalion, Romolo Gessi PAI Battalion (2 MG and 1 Armored Car Company), and Flying Batteries, RECAM had a random motorized machine gun company. There was also an independent experimental L6 tank platoon.
The Flying Batteries Group had this organization:
    1st Group (3 65/17)
        Batteries were numbered 1-3
    2nd Group (3 65/17, 1 20/35)
        65/17 Batteries were numbered 4-6
    11th Independent Battery (65/17)
    13th Independent Battery (100/17)
    14th Independent Battery (20/35)
In May 1942, it was reformed into the 136th Artillery Regiment, with the following organization:
    14th Group
        1st 65/17 Battery
        2nd 65/17 Battery
        3rd 65/17 Battery
        20/65 Section
    15th Group
        4th 65/17 Battery
        5th 65/17 Battery
        6th 65/17 Battery
        20/65 Section
    16th Group
        7th 75/27 Battery
        8th 75/27 Battery
        9th 75/27 Battery
    17th Group
        10th 100/17 Battery
        11th 100/17 Battery
        12th 100/17 Battery
    13th 20/65 Battery
Some sources disagree that the 13th Independent Battery had 100/17s, instead claiming that it was the 14th that had this armament.
Either way, this battery's four guns were lost by friendly fire during Crusader. Some claim a single gun survived but was later lost within a few months.
The 13th 20/65 battery was renamed the 88th by the time this unit was fully attached to the Giovani Fascisti Armored Divison in January 1943.

The Giovani Fascisti Battalion Group had the following OOB:
HQ Company
MG Company
Transport Company
81/14 Platoon
47/32 Platoon
1st Battalion (3 Companies)
2nd Battalion (3 Companies)
1 Light Tank Company (From the 3rd Light Tank Battalion, Bir el Gubi Only)
Elements of the 8th and 9th Bersaglieri Regiments (Bir el Gubi Only)

So, um, I screwed thsi up. While the RBV order of battle is mostly correct, I made some misplays with the structure of the rest of RECAM. Let's give this another attempt.
There is no random motorzied machine gun battalion. The Romolo Gessi Battalion was a machine gun unit, as it was possible to mount the MGs on the handlbars of the motorcycles.
It had a command platoon rather than company, and it appears the armored car company was numbered as the first rather than any of the motorcycle machine gun companies.
There was also extra artillery not part of the RBV (so not motorized very well) of the following composition. All are listed as "missing" for some reason however, I don't know what that exactly means.
1 20/35 AA Group with 2 batteries
1 88/56 Battery (German gun, Italian crews)
1 105/28 Group with 2 batteries
1 Engineer Company from the CAM Engineer Raggruppamento
1 Mixed Truck Group

We can't know the exact structure of XXXI Libyan Coastal Battalion but its sister XXXII battalion had 25 officers and 752 men, with 15 MGs (3 heavy).
A Libyan MG battalion at this time had 18 officers and 518 men from its 4 companies, so it's not really comparable.
Meanwhile, a standard Libyan battalion had 3 companies with 3 rifle platoons each and a command company, totalling 19 officers and 672 men.
After later reorganizations, September 1941 battalion had 4 companies (varied types) with 27 officers and 725 men. I think this is the most comparable unit (though they differ heavily in MGs).
The coastal battalion had a comparable number of men all the way back in 1940 prior to these changes, so I might see this as a reason to give it 4 companies.
Or maybe it was just a 1940 battalion and the extra 80 men were made up with some random spare platoon. This I also consider quite reasonable.

At the same time, the XXX battalion was at Zuara. I don't think it did anything, but somehow had only 459 men by the end of Compass, implying some of its men had been lost.
The remnants of the XXXII battalion were doing even worse, with just 250 men left. Other battalions had between 400-600 each.
According to some very shaky data, the XXXIV battalion had 4 companies, or at least 4 company-sized units deployed in 4 towns.
But, this was a special battalion formed from previously destroyed Maletti units, so it ain't great. It had previously been destroyed and thus its reconstitution was probably abnormal.
From this, even some non-engaged battalions managed to lose a ton of men and be down to few troops, which makes me think that the organizations were utterly arbitrary and I should use my best judgment.

The XXXIV Battalion that was to be reformed may be the one that Montanari mentions on page 205 of "The First British Offensive". There, it's referred to as "battalion of 600 men to be constituted".
The book also includes the name of its probably first commander, a Colonel Colpani. He could be a survivor from Nibeiwa or a random staff officer found in Cyrenaica.

Other than the two motorized divisions, some claim that the 60th-63rd divisions named after African towns were also given the red shield insignia.
I really can't be bothered to make this change though, and I think the blue one looks better anyway, so I probably won't do anything about this.

In case I need a name handy, Vito de Caro, a lieutenant, was captured as part of the 69th Regiment of the Sirte Division.

After this month-long journey, I think it's appropriate to make a final order of battle so this never happens to anyone else again, and post it to AHF. Here it is!

Changes:

The 51st Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company is a typo, it's the 61st
Elements of the G.a.F. had been moved elsewhere, leaving only part of the 32nd sector
Montanari - "After 15 September the gradual displacement of many units of the border guard to reconstitute the garrisons of the border area and in the area of Halfaya and Sidi Barrani" (p. 292)
"Border guard personnel from Tobruk were used, for the most part, to garrison the strongholds along the grid from Giarabub to the sea and other strongholds around Sidi el Barrani and Buq Buq" (p. 171)
"Deployed in the advanced works with for anti-tank purposes most of the small caliber pieces (65, 75, and 77 mm)"
The 31st/6th and 30th/7th groups are likely a mistake and were the 6th/31st and 7th/31st groups
Added detail

OOB:

22nd Army Corps (Enrico Pitassi Mannella):

61st Infantry Division "Sirte" (Vincenzo Della Mura)
-69th Infantry Regiment
--3 Battalions with 4 companies each, plus one infantry gun battery
-70th Infantry Regiment (same as 69th)
-43rd Artillery Regiment
--1st Group (100/17)
--2nd Group (75/27)
--3rd Group (75/27)
--Anti-Aircraft Battery (Unknown, probably 61st or 261st)
-61st Mixed Engineer Battalion
-61st Machine Gun Battalion (3 companies)
-61st Replacement Battalion
-61st Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company
-61st Mortar Company (6 81/14)
-61st Anti-Tank Battery (8 47/32)

4th Tank Infantry Regiment
-1st Medium Tank Battalion (7 Mobile and 32 Immobile M11/39)
-63rd Light Tank Battalion (32 Immobile L3/35)
--21st Light Tank Battalion (Gave its tanks to the 63rd)
-Anti-Aircraft Battery (Number Unknown)

10th Army Corps Artillery Raggruppamento
-7th Group (100/17)
-17th Group (105/28)

22nd Army Corps Artillery Raggruppamento
-1st Group (100/17)
-1 Battery of 105/28 (From the 42nd or 43rd Group)
--This battery, along with 2 batteries of 105/28 and one of 75/27, was formed into a provisional group
-13th Anti-Aircraft Battery
-Provisional Anti-Tank Battery (6 47/32)
-10th Artillery Specialist Detachment

25th Army Corps Artillery Raggruppamento
-105th Group (149/13)
-130th Group (149/13)
-148th Group (149/13)
-150th Group (149/13)

55th Artillery Regiment "Brescia"
-1st Group (100/17)
-2nd Group (75/27)
-3rd Group (75/27)
-Provisional Infantry Gun Battery (5 65/17)

1st Group, 26th Artillery Regiment "Pavia" (100/17)
15th Anti-Aircraft Group (3 Batteries) (75/46)
10th Battery, 20th Army Corps Artillery Raggruppamento (8 20/65)

140th Blackshirt Battalion "Aquilia" (2 Companies)
Blackshirt Battalion "Volontari della Libia" (4 Companies, one formed from each Libyan CC.NN. legion)

64th Replacement Battalion
3rd Company, 62nd Replacement Battalion

22nd Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company
25th Anti-Tank Battery (6 47/32)
141st Mortar Company (No mortars in December, may have received some in January)
142nd Mortar Company (Same)

Guardia alla Frontiera (Umberto Barberis):

31st Coverage Sector
-31st Frontier Guard Infantry Battalion (4 Companies)
-31st Mixed Engineer Detachment
-31st Frontier Guard Artillery Raggruppamento
--5th Group (232nd Bis (105/28) and 242nd (120/25) Batteries)
--6th Group (230th Bis (120/25) and 231st Bis (120/25) Batteries)
--7th Group (244th (149/35) and 245th (149/35) Batteries)
Elements of the 32nd Coverage Sector
-31st Libyan Coastal Infantry Battalion
-246th Battery (77/28)
-247th Battery (77/28)
-249th Battery (75/27)
Artillery Section "Buffolotto" (2 149/35)

The structure of the subsectors is unknown and its unclear if any were removed from the 32nd
Since the 31st subsector took over the positions of the 32nd subsector, I don't think the 32nd had any infantry left in the area

Naval Units:

Batteries:
-Beiad (6 102/35, 1 20/65)
-Bellotti (4 149/47, 2 20/65)
-Dandolo (5 149/47, 4 20/65)
-Grasso (4 149/47, 2 20/65)
-Pilastrino (6 102/35, 1 76/40, 1 20/65)
-Sidi Mahmud (6 102/35, 1 20/65)
-Tonno (6 76/40, 2 20/65)
-Topo (6 76/40, 1 20/65)
-Tordo (6 76/40, 1 20/65)
-Toro (6 76/40, 1 20/65)
-Tortora (6 102/35, 2 20/65)

Of the above guns, only 8 149/47, 18 102/35, and 16 75/40 could be used on land
    
-Nembo (4 120/40)
-Vittoria (Unknown)

Cruiser "San Giorgio" (4 254/30, 8 190/45)

Training Units:

Battery (2 77/28, 1 149/12)
"Piave" Strongpoint (Various training platoons of infantry, machine gun, mortars)

Aircraft: 2 (1 RO37 and 1 CA10)

Defense of the Tobruk Port:
116th Infantry Regiment Depot
31st G.a.F. Mixed Depot
3rd Company, 62nd Replacement Battalion
3 Carabinieri Sections
Total 160 Men

I've been looking at various other bridging phases of the campaign in North Africa. One of them is the sort of "lull" while Rommel is arriving in Tripoli.
During this time, the Italians began to transport elements to defend Sirte. One such unit was the column "Santamaria", named after Major Camillon Santamaria Niccolini.
It consisted of one tank company, one machine gun company, and two batteries of 75/27. It shrunk by April to barely a company of strength.
A mention of a "Reparti da Posizione Presidio Sirte" responsible for defending the town can also be found, but this unit might be a collection of admin units and not even really exist.

I know that the frontline defense positions had anti-tank guns of 47/32 and 75/27 as well as Breda 20/65s, but you have to count manually to get an exact idea.
There were 8 47/32 guns of the 61st Anti-Tank battery, as well as 6 guns of the 25th Anti-Tank Battery. I have a decent idea of where these were.
4 guns, likely from the 61st, were placed in the reserve. 2, which could be from either battery, were with the 31st Libyan Coastal Battalion.
A total of 43 47/32 guns were registered, while 42 were recorded as anti-tank guns in the eastern sector. Given the above 6 removed, 37 47/32s were part of this anti-tank grouping.
There were thus just 5 more anti-tank guns, which isn't a whole lot and is hard for me to believe. Something easier for me to believe is that this 42 number ignores the 23 GaF ones, leaving instead 28.
But then some of them were training too, which might be the "Derna" battery. That could account for maybe 4 of the 28 guns left. We're gonna have to count 20/65s.

Of the 20/65s, there were 42, but of course not all were used here. I can only find information about where 4 were, so I think the information might just be incomplete.
So, let's instead extrapolate starting with what we have. There were similar numbers of 20/65 and 47/32 guns in total. However, the six initially lost strongpoints had 4 47/32 and only 1 20/65.
Because of this, it's basically impossible for me to decide how many were deployed to the positions in total. So, let's just give it a guess and assume a ratio of 2.
With 14 47/32s assumed in those positions, we'll add 8-12 20/65s, with 16-20 spots left for 77/28 and 75/27. I think my original assumption of 3 batteries plus the training one as reasonable.
Nothing conclusive can be decided, though. I'm gonna have to give up on this one and just accept that we know nothing here. An unlucky situation and a waste of time.
But at the very least, my setup is something that isn't plain false or insanely unacceptable. And it does agree with the other Montanari claims. Unless I can somehow find more information, that's that for now.

Good news, though, is that there are some calibers we can count. I think I have enough information to find all the 77/28 guns, of which 12 total could be found.
Two were deployed as artillery in a training battery, leaving 10 used as anti-tank guns. Of those, 2 were used to support the 31st Libyan Coastal Battalion.
This is one place where the text and the images of Montanari disagree. I think the images are generally more accurate since they were written later so I'll take their word for it.
That leaves 8 77/28s, which were probably in two G.a.F. batteries assigned to support the fortifications at the outer ring.

What about 75/27s? 11 are listed in an anti-tank role, with 48 used in a firing role. The 48 number makes sense, as there were four groups, 2 each from the 55th and 43rd regiments.
Of the anti-tank ones, 3 were deployed with the 140th Blackshirt Battalion, leaving 8 which I assume were 249th and "Derna" batteries. I think we're finally making some progress here, these numbers add up well.
So with 8 75/27s and 8 77/28s, that leaving 26 other calibers, presumably 14 47/32s and 12 20/65s, or maybe some other counting. But since I think Montanari was right about the 47/32s deployed back, I actually disagree.
I think the actual number is 16 47/32s, 10 20/65s, and 8 of every other caliber. The GaF 23 47/32s aren't counted for somse reason, and an additional 4 47/32s were given to the mobile reserve.
Finally, I can be confident that my counting is correct. It just took several hours. I'm not to displeased by this since we got results, but this could've been so much smoother.

On a different note, the 260th-263rd batteries of the GaF were armored with massive Skoda 420/12 mortars taken from Austria-Hungary. I don't believe any saw action before the war ended.

But... I might have to reconsider the state of the 230th-232nd bis batteries. I can't find a single mention of a bis battery after 1941, and I think the practice might've been discontinued.
I found that the 230th non-bis battery was in Albania at this time and contributed to the victory in Greece. However this unit is likely entirely different from its bis version, so this is far from useful.
The base 231st and 232nd batteries were also in a distinct sector in Albania though it's unclear if they saw combat in Greece. Again, they never made it to Africa.

Now let's count 105/28 and 120/25 guns. The totals offered by Montanari are 16 105/28s and 12 120/25s, so 4 and 3 groups, respectively.
His maps disagree, though, showing 8 symbols of such gun sizes, plus the Regia Marina 120/45 battery. Of those, 5 are labelled as 105/28 and 3 as 120/25. So there's an extra 105/28 battery.
But which one is the fake? I genuinely don't think that there would be a hole in the GaF units, but I don't think the mistake would show up in the 22nd Raggruppamento either. I think the issue goes deeper than that.
So, let's now move two other kinds of gun, the 75/27 field gun and the 100/17 howitzer. Maybe these were miscounted?

11 75/27 AT:
Point 144 - 3
249th Battery - 4
"Derna" Training Battery - 4

48 75/27 A:
II/43rd Group - 12
III/43rd Group - 12
II/55th Group - 12
III/55th Group - 12

63 100/17:
VII/10th Corps Group - 12
I/22nd Corps Group - 12
Mixed/22nd Corps Group - 3 (unclear)
I/26th Group - 12
I/43th Group - 12
I/55th Group - 12

1 149/12:
Training Battery - 1

2 77/28:
Training Battery - 2
(Honestly I don't get what this battery even was doing. Maybe it was actually the naval "Vittoria" battery but I can't say that with any confidence)

10 77/28 AT:
140th Blackshirt Battalion - 2
246th Battery - 4
247th Battery - 4

16 105/28:
232nd Bis Battery - 4
17th/10th Corps Group - 12

12 120/25:
230th Bis Battery - 4
231st Bis Battery - 4
242nd Battery - 4

48 149/13:
25th Corps Group - 48

11 149/35:
244th Battery - 4
245th Battery - 4
Regia Marina / G.a.F. Section "Buffolotto" - -2
Probably a training formation or something idk - 1

We're missing 3 100/17s. My solution to this is to say that one of the 105/28 batteries marked on Montanari's map must actually be composed of 100/17s. But which one was that?
I think it could only be the mixed group. There's no proof at all that it was formed from the 232nd bis battery. The other two 105/28 groups, the 17th/10th and 42nd/22nd, are known from their war diaries.
And in the case of the 42nd/22nd, while even its number is somewhat disputable, what isn't disputable is that Rostagno mentions a 105/28 battery there.
On the other hand, the reality of the 5th/Mixed Group of the GaF is utterly unclear and Montanari himself might actually be guessing. So was there another battery than the 232nd bis?

I spent like an hour thinking about this and couldn't come to a conclusion. The issue is that Montanari manages to contradict himself not one but two times.

1. On page 182, he mentions the "1 batteria mista del I gruppo del 22o raggruppamento" as part of the artillery complement of one sector for the defense. No elements of the 22o raggruppamento are described in the other sectors. No further mentions of this unit are made in this chapter.
These descriptions were dated to January 20 by Montanari, but I don't know where he got the information from.

2. On page 332, a report from XXII Corps Chief of Staff Carlo Rostagno mentions the 22o Raggruppamento consisting of "1o gruppo da 100/17, 1a batteria da 105/28" and some support, anti-aircraft, and provisional units.
This document has a definitive name attached to it but is also oudated from December 10.

3. In sketch 18 of the companion sketches book, the I/22 group is drawn as consisting of 4 batteries (1 field gun, 1 howitzer, and 2 heavy field gun).
Worse, two nearby groups are both labelled as I/55 (1st group of 55th regiment) making them duplicates. This could be because I/55 was oversized and was split in half when deployed, or it might be a typo and one might actually be from the 22o Raggruppamento.
This sketch is dated to January 23 by Montanari but I don't know where he got the information from.

So I don't forget, the total number of defensive works was 144.
Or... maybe it was 124. I'm too lazy to count on my own. Why the confusion?
I think the confusion stems from the nature of the works. 124 were "built", but there were 144 total. This is because 20 were built into natural caves and thus didn't need to be dug.
Also, Bardia had 113, so a similar number despite the weaker defenses there. Not the best move if you ask me.
Other than blowing up bridges to offer support to his positions, Pitassi Manella also had a series of roadblocks built to given his units more time. Maybe they were built by the GaF, actually, but same point.

I'm also gonna recount artillery for a different number I've received, 198. Maybe this is more useful than the 343 value that includes a lot of less-primary guns.

My mind just got blown. Apparently I can't read, because "meno 2 capisaldi" doesn't mean "with 2 strongpoints" but "minus 2 strongpoints".
So if the XXXI sector was missing 2 strongpoints, what does that mean? Well the sector originally had two subsectors with 4 and 2 strongpoints. The XXXII sector had the same organization.
That leaves 12 total strongpoints, which doesn't exactly sync up with the 16 total that we see during the siege. Let's try to reconcile this.
The best explanation to me is to assume the original two sectors lined up with the later two sectors. So the 6 sectors in the west were split in half to end up forming 10.
This means that they only had 4 strongpoints left. And while the word "elements" doesn't help much, I'm guessing little infantry from the XXXII sector was backing them up.
However, Montanari's maps show just 3 of the western strongpoints held by the GaF, plus maybe 2 more in the north. 3 and 5 do not equal 4, so something must have changed.
That implies that with the eastern (XXXII) sector of the GaF so weak, the XXXI sector moved elements there to fill in two strongpoints. So if this guess (1 strongpoint = 1 company) makes sense, the following is the case:

XXXI - 6 Strongpoints
XXXII - 1 Strongpoint
List of Strongpoints Occupied:
Sidi Daud
Bir Suesi
Bir Junes
Hagfet el Haleiga
Sidi Cheiralla
Bir el Medauuar
Bir el Meclub
Umm Cuheil

My guess of how this split happened was that the Bir el Maclub sector split off Umm Cuheil, the Medauuars divided, and Subsector A/C was duplicated and made independent.
The Zeitun sector has 19 and hasn't been split, so any of these mergers would be smaller and thus would be reasonable to have previously existed.

With 12 strongpoints they had 3300 men. Basic math estimates say that just 2300 men would occupy 8 strongpoints, not far from 7.
That said, I don't intend to execute on this. There's still way too much ambiguity and confusion. How could the "Volontari della Libia" battalion with 600 men only hold 6 forts, when at the same time a single company can hold 9 or more?

Here's another possibility. Suppose there's only 4 from XXXI, and 2 from XXXII. This could... fit if we assume that some remaining stronpoints just accepted being doubled.
But either way, while all these possibilities make sense, the reality is that we're working with almost nothing here. Even if we know how many strongpoints existed, we can't know what units they even consisted of. Maybe each subsector consisted of one static MG company, but how would I know?

And where does the 31st GaF Infantry Battalion fit into this? It has 4 companies, so maybe it could in real time form into 6 half-company combat groups to fill in 6 strongpoints. If so, I should actually remove part of this company. But ultimately what can be done?
The above honestly might actually be worth doing. I don't know how the battalion fits into anything, but since 1/3 of the GaF strongpoints were apparently removed, maybe I should remove 1/3 of the MG companies.
But that's entirely based on assumptions that I don't know if I can make. The battalion to me seems like some kind of experimental reorganization of the subsector system by merging all infantry under this sector into a single battalion.
If one company was removed, it could've simply been replenished with manpower from the XXXII sector. That fits in more neatly and doesn't create as much confusion.
And as a fort garrison unit with an absurd amount of machine guns and other firepower, the organization of this battalion can't be compared to any contemporary infantry or static machine gun unit.
It doesn't help that both sectors initially had the same number of strongpoints, 6, but only a difference of 300 men, which certainly is not the strength of a battalion with 4 companies.
Unless the 31st Libyan Battalion was actually counted as well despite not being a G.a.F. unit, but at that point there's not much that can really be inferred; it's just too ambiguous at this point.

Also, there were also some units moved as far as Sidi Barrani. But this may be a confused mention of the 150th CC.NN. Battalion that moved there or it may be non-combat units.
Nothing concrete has been said about this, unlike the redoubts of Capuzzo, Maddalena, Garn ul Grein, or Giarabub, so while I am aware that something when near Sidi Barrani, nothing will be done.

One final possibility to consider. What if the 5th, 6th, and 7th groups were never real, at least in the case of one of them?
If so, we have a shortage of 8 120/25 and 4 105/28, as well as 3 100/27. However, I literally can't find any 120/25 guns even close to this area, so where those 4 came from is hard to know.
Perhaps these batteries had been disbanded and their personnel transferred forward, but the guns were still lying around. Is this likely?
Actually I messed up the math. Let's do this again at the bottom...

But this does give me more thought, because after re-reading Montanari's "Operations", not once in his Tobruk section does he mention the existence of 105/28 guns of the GaF, only 120/25. Hardly definitive information though.

There's some disagreeing points here:

1. In various sources (other than Montanari) about the order of battle half a year previously in June 1940, the following is said about these batteries:
1st Group: 248th, 249th, and 258th batteries
2nd Group: 246th, 246th Bis, and 258th Bis batteries
3rd Group: 240th, 245th, 247th, and 247th Bis batteries
4th Group: (Irrelevant)
5th Group: 232nd Bis, 242nd, and 243rd batteries
6th Group: 230th Bis and 231st Bis batteries
7th Group: 238th, 239th, 244th, and 245th batteries
It's important to note the distinction between the 1st-3rd groups and 5th-7th groups. The first three were all equipped with lighter guns, while the latter three were equipped with heavier guns. Thus it is not difficult to distinguish between them.
I haven't found any original source for this, but it comes from multiple places and most of them I trust and have few mistakes (compared to Montanari). But it is outdated by January 1941.

2. On page 182, he mentions the 5th, 6th, and 7th Guardia alla Frontiera groups as deployed, but gives no information about their composition.
These descriptions were dated to January 20 by Montanari, but I don't know where he got the information from.

3. On page 332, a report from XXII Corps Chief of Staff Carlo Rostagno mentions only 6 batteries: 242/5, 244/7, 245/7, 246/2, 247/3, and 249/1.
This document's exclusive purpose is to be an order of battle and is highly exhaustive. I haven't found any abnormalities with it other than this.
Three of these are from the 5th-7th groups, while the other 3 are from the 1st-3rd groups.
Notably, none of these batteries have the "bis" designation. I do not know whether these were renamed, removed, or if he just forgot them.
This document has a definitive name attached to it but is also oudated from December 10.

4. In sketch 18 of the companion sketches book, the 5th, 6th, and 7th groups are all drawn, though the 5th is shown under the name "mixed group".
Each group is shown with 2 batteries. The calibers match up with the June 1940 5th-7th groups, except that all have been reduced to the size of 2 batteries (rather than 3, 2, and 4 respectively).
No numbers or names are shown for the individual batteries, but the calibers match up with some of both the regular and bis batteries.
This sketch is dated to January 23 by Montanari but I don't know where he got the information from.

I've come up with the following two possibilities, but keep in mind I might have missed another:

1. There were 9 total batteries. The 5th, 6th, and 7th groups had 2 each, and there were 3 more from the 1st-3rd groups.
Rostagno only mentioned 6 of the batteries because the rest were "bis", and he decided for some reason not to include the "bis" ones.
Between December and January, the latter 3 batteries were disbanded and thus don't show up any in January reports.
It's also possible that all of the bis batteries had left the garrison and returned in January for some reason. But they couldn't have gone far, otherwise they would've been trapped outside by the faster British troops, which makes me wonder where they went at all.

2. There were 6 total batteries, 2 each in the 5th-7th groups. Between December and January the 3 in the 1st-3rd groups were rearmed with heavy guns and subordinated to the 5th-7th groups.
In this possibility, all of the "bis" batteries were already gone by December.

There might not appear to be a significant difference between these options, but what's important is that in one of them, the latter batteries are numbered 230bis-232bis, while in the other, they are numbered 246, 247, and 249.

The key difference is whether you think it was more likely that the Italians "forgot" batteries or "renamed and reequipped" batteries.

It's worth noting that I have also counted up the total artillery gun numbers that Montanari provides, and they are consistent with the 9 initial batteries worth of guns.
But this doesn't rule out 6 batteries, since the guns could have existed as independent single guns rather than batteries, deployed in the defensive posts.
In the 2nd possibility, while the batteries were rearmed, their old guns could still be lying around. The difference is the time at which they were disbanded.

This is irrelevant to the above discussion, but I have no idea how Niehorster got the idea of the mixed engineer detachment in XXXII sector in addition to the one in the XXXI sector.
Not anywhere have I seen this mentioned. He might actually just be extrapolating and making a guess or maybe he just copy-pasted the entire structure of the XXXI sector an called it a day.

I've found more about the reconstitution efforts. The three positions reformed were those of Bir Sheferzen, Fort Maddalena, and some place called Garn um Grein, each with one company.
If 1000 infantrymen were removed to reconstitute 3 companies of defense, that does imply the companies are much larger than I initially believed. They really were pretty oversized, and backed up with machine guns and anti-tank guns besides.
So that means that the XXXI Battalion, if it still existed that is, had a similar strength of 1000 men. So where did the other 1300 men go? Where they in a series of strongpoint-type defensive units? I'll see if I can find out.
But at the very least, I am again considering the 5-company or 5-strongpoint possibility of how the GaF was organized back in Tobruk again. This could use some more thought.

Montanari's "Operations" also mentions a 105/25 gun. This is probably a typo for 105/28 or for 120/25 and I don't know which.
There was a 105/25 gun later, actually an extended 105/23, but this gun wasn't developed until 1942. It was a rare model that was actually a decently modern gun, but of course few ever made it into combat due to building delays. They ended up used by Semoventi.

Apparently G.a.F. guns of 47/32 and 65/17 had been transferred to the Libyan Divisions Group. I am not aware of the origins of these guns and they could have been from any of the sectors that had these guns.
At the same time, the Sirte Division's 65/17 batteries appear to have been transferred to the Cirene Division. Based on other information, though, I'm gonna say that these two batteries were reconstituted by the next battle.

Ok, finally some answers! On "Operations" page 258, Montanari includes a chart for all guns that were inside Tobruk, and they are the following:
16 149/35
12 120/25
4 105/28
36 77/28
4 75/27
Except we know there were only 12 77/28s when the battle was actually joined. So this chart must not be very accurate, since Rostagno agrees that only 8 were left in batteries by then.
If we take it to be true, the only reasonable series of events is this: By December, most batteries had been disbanded, leaving behind guns. By January, those guns had left... for some reason.

This is dated to December 12, and is 72 guns in total. But what is most noticeable is that this implies there were 18 batteries, much more than Rostagno, or anyone, admits.
We know that the amount of 149/35 fell, as did the amount of 77//28, and by a large margin too. These were likely moved in late December. But the number of 120/25 remains constant.
Thus we can confirm that at this stage, the G.a.F. mustered 12 120/25 and 4 105/28, while the XXII corps later brought 12 more 105/28. This confirms that Rostagno was inaccurate - these must be the 230th-232nd bis batteries.

Also, I don't think the 611 machine guns and 23 47/32 guns numbers are necessarily accurate. Montanari does not mention of these guns were actually in Tobruk or if they might have been a portion of the garrison of Bardia.
Instead, I have the number of 18 47/32s, which probably formed the provisional battery. It is likely that the GaF had legitimately been reduced to a single 47/32 gun.

43 47/32:
GaF Positions - 18
GaF Training - 1
Provisional AT Battery - 10
61st AT Battery - 8
25th AT Battery - 6

The manpower of the 4th Tank Infantry Regiment must have been greatly reduced. Even with two battalions, it only had about 600 men, and worse, many of its men had been detached to form new units at Benghazi. Maybe only 200 men remained in this "regiment".

Montanari also notes the arrival of the following reinforcements which I'll try to fit into the system:
Metropolitan Battalion - 140th CC.NN. Battalion
This is a bit of a weird way to say it, but that's just how "Operations" is. "The First British Offensive" just calls it an infantry battalion
Libyan Complement/Reserve Battalion - CC.NN. Battalion "Volontari della Libia"
(This is probably wrong. Some actual Libyan Complement Battalions have been identified and are distinct units.)
A group of 75/46 from Cyrene (the city, not the division) - XV Group CA
Two groups of 105/28 from Barce - XLII and XLIII groups, or maybe XVII and XXXV groups (one of which later left) (not sure)
(Actually this was possibly the 20th CAR, which didn't make it in time, since we know where the 22nd CAR was earlier at)
(These two groups are also later mentioned, although not by name, as assigned at least temporarily to the control of General Bignami)
One of 75/27s, partly from Barce and partly from Benghazi - "Derna" Training Battery (not sure)

A "I" group of the 10th CAR was supposedly in Bardia. Given how unreliable Montanari can be I disagree with this, since the 10th CAR never formed such a group according to its war diaries. Instead this is probably the XXV/XXXV group.

On second thoughts, I absolutely have no idea how the subsectors even work. The XXX "Bardia" G.a.F. coverage sector has the fortress of Bardia subordinated to it, and we know that that single fortress unit contained 2500 men, despite being just a portion of a subsector.
At the same time, the two secotrs at Tobruk had less men total, and for them, the fortress unit contained the subsectors, not the other way around. Again, this is a place of utter ambiguity, and I am certain that deciphering this situation is beyond my capabilities.

To get a better idea, I went and examined on Niehorster's website a ton of the other GaF sectors. Here's what I've learned that gives me a little more confidence:
What I found out is that the subsectors were functionally administrative units that were responsible for land areas. They didn't have a military organization role.
Their mobile units varied greatly. Some had machine gun companies, alpini battalions, or artillery groups. Others straight up have nothing, like those of the XXXI and XXXII sectors I've been worrying about.
That implies that the issue isn't a lack of information. These sectors legitimately just didn't have any units subordinated to them other than individual strongpoints which contained individual fortifications. There were no companies, platoons, etc.
And since I ignore all units of such small size as part of my game, I think it's safe to ignore them. They had 2300 men, but outside of the XXXI Infantry Battalion, the rest weren't organized in a way that matters for the game.

It might also be the case that the subsectors were merged with the elements of the Sirte Division that took over most of their positions, making their already unclear impact reduced even further.

So basically, the above like 200 lines are just me questioning myself when I already had everything pretty much right. Good job myself!

Briefly going back to Crusader, by the end of that battle the 7th Support Group only had a single infantry battalion and 1.5 battalions of artillery. I don't know which ones they were.

When the Pilastrino and Solaro positions fell, the Australian troops had reached there from Point. 98 (Tordo Battery) and the Gabr el Abd position.
It is strange to see that the Pilastrino position with Della Mura somehow managed to hold out. Montanari claims that a reserve managed to retake the position just before they had to surrender, but I find this hard to believe given that the reserve was quite small and weak.

I've made yet another attempt to track where the 120/25 guns went. 12 of them existing implies that there were 3 batteries. Can I find any proof of this? There were originally 7 batteries, according to Montanari, and 4, according to Regio Esercito.
I am certain that the 242nd battery had 4 of such guns. But 8 left seems like quite a lot to be missing.

Prior to the war, Tobruk's naval batteries were far weaker, consisting of just 6 batteries: 1 149/47, 1 102/33, and 4 75/60. I think 102/33 is a typo for 102/35.
I can't tell exactly which of the 149/47 and 102/35 batteries were old and which ones were built later, but either way the number was expanded up to 11 by late 1940.

https://www.arsmilitaris.org/pubblicazioni/arremba.pdf (I lost it once, may that never occur again)
I read a document about the "San Giorgio", honestly this was a very impressive find! Here's the takeaways.
1. The ship was nicknamed the "Lioness of Tobruk" or "Leonessa di Tobruk".
2. The naval battery "Nembo" used guns taken from the sunken destroyer of the same name. Wikipedia says they were sent to Bardia instead but I don't see how that happened. The calibers match up too.
3. Somehow little damage was sustained by the ship, in fact only one of its guns was lost and that was due to wearing out by firing too much.
4. Not only was the ship ordered to fight to the end rather than try to escape, it was also given some contradictory orders that contributed to the lack of action. This was caused by its subordination both to naval command Libia and the Tobruk Fortress.
5. This article claims the XXII Army Corps' engineer raggruppamento contained a 55th Engineer Company.
6. The scuttling attempt was apparently unsuccessful to the point that none of the guns were damaged and the ship could be rapidly refloated. Two sailors were killed in the process, though.
7. Its name references the patron saint and flag of the republic of Genoa.
8. After Pugliese, the second-in-command was a Lieutenant Commander Pane.
(I don't know where the 55th Engineer Company could have come from, since the 55th artieri company was with the "Bari" Division. I can only assume this was actually a signalmen unit)

Just to be prudent once again, let's give another consideration to the nonexistance of the three batteries Rostagno missed.
We have a shortage of 8 120/25, as well as 3 100/27. The latter can be considered relatively inconsequential, but I don't think the same can be said for the former.
There really is no solution to this. The 120/25 gun was a naval gun that was used only by a few units. Maybe some appeared from Tripoli but I have absolutely zero evidence in that direction.
Also, these batteries were definitely not disbanded or reorganized in any way, since we know they were used as direct fire artillery in batteries rather than as anti-tank guns.

The question can also now be reframed in a different way. Rather than 9-battery vs 6-battery, the real debate is over the identities of these batteries.

I have been reading Mario Montanari's "La Prima Offensiva Britannica in Africa Settentrionale" published in 1979. I couldn't find a version in English, but I've gotten through it fine.
However, there is something that is seriously confusing me about his description of the loss of Tobruk in January 1941, and that is the numbers of the Guardia alla Frontiera's artillery batteries.

The sources say the following:

1. There were originally many batteries responsible for Tobruk's defense. However many of them were removed between June 1940 and January 1941. Here's the order as of June 1940:
1st Group: 249 and 2 others
2nd Group: 246 and 2 others
3rd Group: 247 and 3 others
4th Group: 3 others
5th Group: 232 bis, 242, and 1 other
6th Group: 230 bis and 231 bis
7th Group: 244, 245, and 2 others
The others are not unknown; I do know their numbers. However, I am certain they had left the garrison by January so they aren't relevant to this question.
It's important to note the distinction between the 1st-3rd groups and 5th-7th groups. The first three were all equipped with lighter guns, while the latter three were equipped with heavier guns.

2. On page 182, Montanari mentions the 5th, 6th, and 7th Guardia alla Frontiera groups as deployed, but gives no information about their composition.
These descriptions were dated to January 20 by Montanari, but I don't know where he got the information from.

3. On page 332, a report from XXII Corps Chief of Staff Carlo Rostagno mentions only 6 batteries: 242/5, 244/7, 245/7, 246/2, 247/3, and 249/1.
This document's exclusive purpose is to be an order of battle and is highly exhaustive. I haven't found any major abnormalities with it other than this.
This document has a definitive name attached to it but is also oudated from December 10.

4. In sketch 18 of the companion sketches book, the 5th, 6th, and 7th groups are all drawn, though the 5th is shown under the name "mixed group".
Each group is shown with 2 batteries. The calibers match up with the June 1940 5th-7th groups, except that all have been reduced to the size of 2 batteries (rather than 3, 2, and 4 respectively).
No numbers or names are shown for the individual batteries, but the calibers match up with the original 5th-7th groups shown above.
This sketch is dated to January 23 by Montanari but I don't know where he got the information from.

One more thing is known: the guns of all 9 batteries were in the fortress. However, the guns of the three lighter ones were sent to the forward defensive positions rather than being used in batteries behind the lines.
The question is not of what guns were there, but rather, what the numbers of the remaining 6 batteries were. The first three were almost certainly the 242nd, 244th, and 245th, but what about the other three?
I've come up with the following two possibilities, but keep in mind I might have missed another:

1. The batteries shown in the sketches were numbered the 230th-232nd bis.
This requires Rostagno to have missed them in his document for some reason. Maybe he made an honest mistake, maybe he was confused about the "bis" designation, or maybe he was unfamiliar with the G.a.F.

2. The batteries shown in the sketches were numbered the 246th, 247th, and 249th.
This requires the Italian Army or G.a.F. to rename, rearm, and reorganize these three batteries.

The XXII Corps (Pitassi Manella) and Tobruk Military Fortress (Umberto Barberis) were originally separate commands, but on December 10, the date of this document, the commands were merged under Pitassi Manella, with Barberis becoming his subordinate.
I don't know how this merger worked, and it might not have been complete in just one day. Barberis also held the concurrent commands of the Tobruk Military Fortress and the XXI Corps G.a.F. command, which doesn't help.
Ultimately, both me and the AIs I asked came to the conclusion that possibility 1 is more likely. The whole renaming and rearming shebang is quite frankly insane and much less likely than just three batteries slipping through.
Rearming is also unreasonable given the active external threat faced. If the bis batteries left, why didn't they take their guns with them? And if not, how did some guns show up out of nowhere? It's unanswerable.
And no such rearmament is mentioned by any of Montanari's books. I could search harder but at this point I really don't think this insane possibility was real.

And anyway, what could I replace these 3 batteries with? Maybe these three? I guess this is a reserve possibility to keep around in case a huge turnabout occurs.
1. Training Battery "Derna"
2. Training Company "Piave"
3. Naval Battery "Nembo"

Either way, I'm gonna test a 105/45 map to see how it goes.

I briefly had some more questions about the source of the XLII and XLIII groups of the 22nd CAR. THe good news is that I've solved this conundrum.
It does seem the 43rd came from the depot of the 3rd CAR with 105/28, but I can't confirm if this unit stuck around or was eventually reformed using a different HQ. And I later found that the 42nd came from the depot of the 6th CAR with 105/28.
These two units were probably both formed at about the same time and met up with the 22nd CAR on June 1. Neither of these units seem to have G.a.F. origins so that's another theory shot dead.

The Maneuver Army Corps had a CAR, the Raggruppamento Artiglieria di Manovra. Sort of. The unit never actually fought with its corps was only formed out of four groups of 100/17 taken from the Bologna, Pavia, Sabratha, and Brescia divisions.
Half of these ended up in Tobruk where they destroyed. About the other half, I don't know, but I don't think they made it back to Tripolitania safely, that's for sure.
Also, there just never was a 23rd CAR. I'm assuming the reason for this was that the XXIII Corps had been rather newly formed and thus didn't receive its own artillery unit; there just wasn't time to form one.
Carlo Montù's "History of the Artillery" is quite blunt about this. Almost all of the Italian corps had these groups but the one for the 23rd just didn't materialize at this time.

149/13 guns are apparently medium howitzers. I guess caliber is less important than total length in the case of howitzers compared to field guns.
I've seen a claim stating that the "100 series" MG battalions of Italy were all motorized I really don't know if this refers only to the 100-109 battalions or if it includes units with numbers up to 199 (such as the 155th).

There's one other place for us to (quite unreliable) track where GaF units went. Some of them were sent to fortifications, but some artillery directly went to the 10th Army.
Montanari does provide a quality 10th Army order of battle that contains at least some of these units, so let's take a look at them. He also provides a list of which were taken from Bardia, so maybe the rest came from Tobruk.

Attached Units:

(Any of the 105/28 Groups or Batteries may be from Tobruk or from the 22nd CAR but there's no way to konw)

1st Libyan Division "Sibille"
    75/27 Group (2nd CC.NN. Division "28 Ottobre")
    2 65/17 Batteries (1 From Bardia)
    105/28 Battery (From II/21st Corps Artillery Raggruppamento)
    47/32 Company (Bardia)

2nd Libyan Division "Pescatori"
    75/27 Group (2nd CC.NN. Division "28 Ottobre")
    2 65/17 Batteries (1 From Bardia)
    105/28 Group (II/21st Corps Artillery Raggruppamento) (Minus One Battery)
    (Montanari also indicates at other times only single 105/28 batteries with each of these units, so it's possible that they were reinforced)
    47/32 Company

4th CC.NN. Division "3 Gennaio"
    105/28 Group (?)
    (Montanari also indicates at other times only single 105/28 batteries with each of these units, so it's possible that they were reinforced)
    75/27 Anti-Air Group

63rd Infantry Division "Cirene"
    105/28 Group (I/21st Corps Artillery Raggruppamento)
    75/27 Group (III/21st Corps Artillery Raggruppamento)
    75/27 Group (III/12th Artillery Regiment "Sila")
    2 65/17 Batteries
    47/32 Company (2nd CC.NN. Division "28 Ottobre")

Raggruppamento Maletti
    65/17 Group
    75/27 Group
    2 47/32 Companies
    81/14 Company
    105/28 Battery
(I incorrectly noted 81/14 as 81/12 and that spawned a couple subsequent mistakes in my listings. Oops!)

62nd Infantry Division "Marmarica"
    2 65/17 Batteries
    2 47/32 Companies (Bardia)

XXI Corps Artillery Raggruppamento
    2 149/35 Groups (238th and 239th Battery From Tobruk)
    1 105/28 Group (May be 232nd Bis Battery, but cannot be sure, could also be from 10th or 22nd Corps Artillery Raggruppamenti)
    (Based on later news, might be 43/22nd CAR)

Some units were detached from Tobruk units to go to Bardia and replace the elements already there that had been sent off and destroyed forward of the frontier.
Those include ("First Offensive" p. 144):
One group of 105/28 from the 10th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento. It could've been the 42nd or the 43rd group, but I lack confirmation on its exact identity. It might even have been composite.
One battery from I/43rd "Sirte" Artillery Regiment
Artillery from the Tobruk Fortress, sent first to the forward 10th Army and later retreated into Bardia
    2 Groups 75/46 CA (Unidentified)
    1 Battery 75/27
    Naval Battery "Espero" 120/40 (Counterpart to the "Nembo" Battery)
    Naval Battery 102/(35 or 45) (Unidentified)

This doesn't actually clear anything up. If I/43 lost a battery why doesn't it show up either in the maps or in the numbers?
I also can't find the 75/27 battery, since none were there except maybe the "Derna" battery. To be fair nothing is known about this battery, so it may have managed to leave.
But if it did, that still messes up the numbers, since we have 11 and the counting toward that from two batteries and three deployed with Point 144 adds up exactly.

With more information I also think it's time to recount the 47/32s.

43 47/32:
4th Company, 31st Guardia alla Frontiera Infantry Battalion - 18
G.a.F. Loose Gun - 1
Pt. 71 - 2
61st Anti-Tank Company - 8
25th Anti-Tank Company - 6
Provisional Anti-Tank Company - 8

I've neglected to mentions this previously, but there were two arditi (stormtrooper) platoons with the 2nd battalion, 69th Infantry Regiment.
I really have no information about this and it seems these were organic units and did not come from some kind of arditi branch or independent corps unit.

Apparently, prior to Bergonzoli's arrival, the defense of the Bardia position had been entrusted to Amico of the 64th Catanzaro Division. I can't criticize this guy too much because his division was undertrained, but it sure performed poorly under his leadership.
It appears the "piazza" or fortress formation controlled only the GaF units inside. Pitassi Manella receiving control of this contradicts with the fact that Bergonzoli did not receive it.
This probably reflects the fact that the Bardia "piazza" was a smaller formation within the GaF sector rather than the parent unit of the GaF sector, but that's my guess.

Another contradiction in Rostagno's reports, though more minor this time, as he reports only a single G.a.F. engineer mixed detachment (reparto misto genio) inside the base.
This may very well be true but Montanari specifically mentions that there were two elsewhere in the same place that he mentions the 2300 men number. I don't know where his numbers come from but they might be more up to date. (or less)

I've discovered more about the 140th Blackshirt Battalion. Apparently it just... never left Tobruk? Like it might've left but didn't do anything meaningfull before returning.
I'm saying this because "two reduced companies" of the battalion are said to have arrived with the rest of the division, but the rest isn't mentioned, so they probably never moved in the first place.
It is said that the 2nd CC.NN. Division "never regained" the battalion detached to the Sirte Division. Which makes sense, as they were destroyed separately, but this does clear a bit up.

One source claims that the 25th CAR disembarked in Tobruk on the 18th of December, while Montanari claims it was near Cyrene on the 1st. These could both be right, but not very reasonably so. As always, we side with Montanari on this one.
That said, maybe guns this big were so difficult to move for the paltry Italian logistics that sailing them was the better option. An order for this to happen does seem to have been sent.
By that time (December 1), the "Volontari della Libia" battalion had already met up with the Sirte Division and probably joined its order of battle, although both were back at Martuba and would take some time to get to Sidi Daud.
The XV Anti-Aircraft group was also in Appolonia and reached the same fate of the other units. It had what seems to be the longest journey out of all of them, though.
(I trolled, the city is actually spelled Apollonia. What I was thinking when I typed this we can never know)

The 63rd Light Tank Battalion managed to retreat all the way from Buq Buq and somehow not become destroyed. While all its tanks were eventually rendered inefficient (inoperable), the fact that the made it to Tobruk at all is impressive.
Or, perhaps, it had many less tanks and the vast majority came from the XXI battalion that probably wasn't nearly as badly positioned as its tripled-number counterpart.
It is listed as part of the XXI Army Corps, specifically its artillery raggruppamento (though that seems quite far-fetched) back in June, and it sure outlasted the rest of the corps.

Another map component to decipher, but easier this time (dated to mid-December):
10A/XXII
G.a.F.
D."Sirte" (-2 battalions) - Apparently these 2 were temporarily transferred to the Babini Group
4 Groups 149/13 (25th CAR)
3 Groups 100/17 (7/10th CAR, 1st/26th AR, 1st/55th AR)
1 Group 105/28 (17/10th CAR)
1 Group 75/46 (15th CA)
1 Battery 20mm (10th Battery, 20th CAR)

The 2nd 20mm battery of the Sirte Division that vanished was deployed to the coastal defense of the Derna area. Or maybe this was actually the first and there was never a second. No way to know.

More map deciphering (13 January):
G.a.F {
    18 20mm
    8 77mm (246, 247th Batteries)
    32 47mm (The remaining tanks? Alternately a typo or included some regular units that hadn't been armed yet)
    11 100mm (I'm assuming all were given to the regular army artillery units)
    8 75mm (249, "Derna")
    8 149mm (244, 245)
}
Battalion CC.NN. Libia (Volontari dlela Libia)
4 Groups 149/13 (25th CAR)
4 Groups 100/17 (7/10th CAR, 1/22nd CAR, 1/26th AR, 1/55th AR, 1/43rd AR) - 1
3 Groups 75/27 ((2/55th, 3/55th, 2/43rd, 3/43rd) - 1)
1 75/46 (15th CA)
3 Batteries 65/17 (Provisional/55th, 69th, 70th)
(No 47/32 apparently)

I'm guessing the disreprerancy with 100/17 goes as follows:
The 4 groups (7/10th, 1/22nd, 1/26th, 1/55th) were at full strength
1/43rd had lost a battery at Bardia and maybe another elsewhere, both of which were replenished with GaF guns later
The remaining 3-7 GaF 100/17 guns were not part of batteries and were given some other kind of task

I don't have proof of where the other 2 companies of 61st Machine Gun Battalion were (the first was at the Pilastrino position) but if it was anything like Bardia, they would've been sent to join the G.a.F. in the fortifications.

More important from the above info are the numbers of the guns I've been questioning:

16 105/28 = 1 Group 105/28 + 4 Guns
12 - 17/10th CAR
4 - Mixed/22nd CAR

12 120/25 = 12 120mm Guns, Regia Marina
4 - 242nd Battery

36 77/28s are claimed in 12 December, so within the month they had all left.

Another thing to do is to count Bardia's GaF artillery and see if anything is out of place. Here we go...

5 47/32
5 65/17
1 Group 149/35 (238, 239, or elements of the 5th Army Artillery Raggruppamento)
2 Batteries 120/? (230 bis, 231 bis)?
2 Batteries 120/25 (3/30)
4 Batteries 75/27 (idk)

This honestly doesn't help much. I'm starting to lose trust in these sketches because while they seem based on existing documents they're full of inconsistency.
And where did 120/25 guns get into Bardia from? They couldn't have been the 230th and 231st bis batteries, right? That wouldn't leave any guns at Tobruk.
16 of these made it to Bardia, but how could that be possible? Oh, wait, actually it's just that simple. There's a 4/30th group with 2 batteries of 120/25.
And there are also batteries that appear to be entirely invisible, since Montanari also claims not 3 or 4, but 7 120/25 batteries were in Tobruk at some point. How???

p.104 - The G.a.F. provided a battery of 105/28 and two of 149/35. I can't be sure if these are G.a.F. units exactly but other evidence does point to this.
I believe these are most likely to be the 232nd bis, 238nd, and 239th batteries, all from Tobruk's XXXI sector.

A 105/28 battery appears in the Italian order of battle for Operation Agreement all the way in 1942. It's a reach, but maybe this has something to do with the earlier 105/28 batteries of the G.a.F. and corps artillery.

Some random named Gianni Tamanti was the commander of 3rd Battery, 343rd Artillery Group G.a.F.

I got insanely baited by the guy who wrote the blog article about Luigi Adiotori. The numbers he gave for batteries were not for just Tobruk, but included Bardia as well. What an idiot.
Let's go over those numbers again:

16 77/28 (10 From 32, 6 From 30)
1 105/28 (232 Bis)
7 120/25 (2 of III/30, 2 of IV/30, and 3 from 242, 243, 230 Bis, 231 Bis)
1 149/12 (Unknown, 236 Bis, 240, or 241 maybe)
4 149/35 (238, 239, 244, 245)

This doesn't clear much up, but it makes some things less confusing. But now we're discrediting regio esercito as well, giving me nothing to work with.
At this point, Rostagno might be the only one to survive. Was he based?
Also, the 149/12 battery that can't be found may also be a training formation, because I couldn't find a single one anywhere else.

Having seen a fresh post by Leser, I now see that the 5th Group was in fact referred to as "Mixed" from the start, as it contained two different calibers of gun.
This is just something that Montanari screws up later and results in confusion, but there never was any actual discontinuity between these two units' lifespans, because there weren't two distinct units.

The 13th AA battery from the 22nd Corps Artillery Raggruppamento was likely originally the 27th AA battery from the Brescia division's artillery.
I also see mentions of a 27th AT company with 8 47/32 guns being sent to the XXXII setor but I don't think they stayed.
I can't see how this would be confused with the 25th AT company, while they do have similar names the 25th has only 6 guns while the 27th here has 8 guns?
Maybe it was the provisional company and that's how it snuck by? I guess it's surely possible.
To be fair, if it ended up with the GaF, and we know how little is known about that, it's then surely possible that it managed to sneak thorugh.
This all came from Comando Supremo forum, and infuriatingly enough, none of it agrees with what Montanari drew in his sketches or what Rostagno said in his reports.

43 47/32:
GaF Positions - 18
GaF Training - 1
Provisional AT Battery - 6
25th AT Battery - ?
27th AT Battery - 8
61st AT Battery - 8
Sum: 47???

The 22nd Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company was originally formed from being detached from the 5th Bersaglieri Regiment that was active in Greece.
However, while this was its base of formation, I think the unit was independent for all intents and purposes and had no real ties to its old regiment. I won't be adding that to the designation or give it an icon.
Or maybe it came from the 6th. These guys online cannot agree.

Also, the arm shield icons I've been using don't exist for later divisions like the Giovani Fascisti Division. This is because the whole system was discontinued in 1940.
For that reason, in a way, my entire game is somewhat anachronistic. Good job me!

I was wrong about the 23 anti-tank guns in the GaF 31st Infantry Battalion. In reality, this battalion actually had the 37mm infantry machine gun (strange designation) that was taken from Austria-Hungary.

I have found some info about 17 June, which is one whole reorganization after 10 June.
How this was actually implemented will take some more time to figure out. But here's what I have so far:

June 10 1940:

XXXI:
    5th Group: 232bis (105/28), 242, 243 (120/25)
    6th Group: 230bis, 231bis (120/25)
    7th Group: 238, 239, 244, 245 (149/35)
    (Ascoli describes these as 120/25 but this is almost certainly a typo)
    (He also notes the 7th group as XXI/7 which is likely another typo)
    (Montanari claims that there were 40 guns here, despite there only being 9 batteries, so some guns are already going missing at the worst time)
XXXII:
    1st Group: 248, 249, 258 (77/28)
    2nd Group: 246, 246bis, 258bis (77/28)
    3rd Group: 240bis, 247, 247bis (77/28)
    (Note the lack of a 245th battery here. I see this unit in some orders of battle but that's like a typo that got promulgated)
    4th Group: 236bis, 240, 241 (77/28)

June 17 1940:

XXXI (East):
242,243,244,245,246,248
I/203 (75/27)
I/22nd CAR (100/17)
XLII/22nd CAR or XLIII/22nd CAR (105/28)

XXXII (West):
238, 239, 247
230/b, 291/b (probably a typo lol)
II/203 (75/27)
III/203 (100/17)
XLII/22nd CAR or XLIII/22nd CAR (105/28) (whichever one wasn't in the eastern sector)

Anti-Tank:
240, 241, 246, 249
236/b, 240/b, 247/b, 258/b

Merged:

(244,245,248,243,242,246)
XXXI: (3 77/28, 3 120/25)
    1st Group: 248 (77/28)
    2nd Group: 246 (77/28)
    5th Group: 242 (120/25), 243 (77/28)
    (This was a probably a mistake from my source. I don't see why the 243rd battery would switch calibers)
    7th Group: 244, 245 (120/25)
    (Almost certainly a typo, these were always 149/35, this originates from Ascoli)

(238,239,230bis,247,231bis)
XXXII: (1 77/28, 2 120/25, 2 149/35)
    3rd Group: 247 (77/28)
    6th Group: 230bis, 231bis (120/25)
    7th Group: 238, 239 (149/35)

(241,249,258bis,246,236bis,247bis,240bis,240)
Anti-Tank (Raggruppamento Pezzi Anticarro): (8 77/28)
    1st Group: 249 (77/28)
    2nd Group: 258bis (77/28)
    3rd Group: 240bis, 247bis (77/28)
    4th Group: 236bis, 240, 241 (77/28)

(Elements of the 203rd Artillery Regiment are also mentioned. This was the divisional artillery regiment of the Catanzaro Division and they were here in June, but would leave soon later to invade Egypt.)

Later, 2 149/35 batteries and 1 105/28 battery were moved to Bardia and then to reinforce the main body of the 10th army, where they likely were lost.
In fact, it seems that in this counting, the 232nd Bis Battery (the 105/28 in question) had already moved.
Numerous 77/28 batteries shared their fate and were transported to the frontier garrisons, although though their numbers are not known. That leaves the following:

This gives me another way to go and recount everything miserably, piece by piece. Will this work, finally?
There are some things that are a bit questionable about this, such as the several groups that change caliber altogether and the guns that just disappear. Their guns, though, were probably left behind.
This does create a sort of Schrödinger's btatery that consist of multiple calibers with multiple sets of guns until they dissociate into a particle/antiparticle regular and bis battery. Cool.

First, let's create a final form based on this and on Rostagno's information:

XXXI (12 120/25):
    5th Group: 242 (120/25)
    7th Group: 244, 245 (149/35)
XXXII (8 149/35):
    6th/7th Group: 238, 239 (120/25)
Anti-Tank: (8 7/28, 8 75/27)
    2nd Group: 246 (77/28)
    3rd Group: 247 (77/28)
    1st Group: 249 (75/27)
    Training Battery "Derna" (75/27)

Or:

XXXI (12 120/25):
    5th Group: 242 (120/25)
    6th/Depot Group: 244/Depot/Bis, 245/Depot/Bis (120/25)
    7th Group: 244, 245 (149/35)
Anti-Tank: (8 7/28, 8 75/27)
    2nd Group: 246 (77/28)
    3rd Group: 247 (77/28)
    1st Group: 249 (75/27)
    Training Battery "Derna" (75/27)

For slightly more specificity, the subsector of the 32nd GaF Coverage Sector that the 31st Libyan Coastal Battalion was part of appears to the 32nd/B Subsector.
Based on this additional information I've received, I'm gonna have the following changes made:

Restructure 5th and 6th Groups - 232nd Bis becomes "Derna", 230th Bis and 231st Bis become 244th Bis and 245th Bis
Form a new "Raggruppamento Pezzi Anticarro" command to manage the loose batteries

For the full version, I'm gonna need to find a new company to replace this since I don't have a spare handy. It's a good thing we prepared at least a little in advance.

The above changes are courtesy of La Guardia alla Frontiera, a book by Massimo Ascoli from the same official publishing office as Montanari's books.
I've started reading through this. Obviously a lot of the book is about the European and Albanian GaF which I don't consider all that interesting, but there's still plenty to see.

Some more information on the units that the Tobruk GaF were withdrawn to replace, based  on Salvatore Castagna's (commander of Giarabub) book:
150th CC.NN. Battalion (of the 250th CC.NN. Legion, of the 4th CC.NN. Division "3 Gennaio"), 75/27 and 47/32 batteries from Maddalena and Garn ul Grein (75/27 were replaced with 77/28)
Prior to this, the 150th CC.NN. Battalion had been split up into its four companies, with the positions of Giarabub, Garn ul Grein, Maddalena, and and Sheferzen each receiving one. 
There were also other elements of the 4th CC.NN. Division in the form of 75/27 batteries. These were presumably also replaced with 77/28 guns from Tobruk.
So, if he is to be believed, four companies, or company-sized units, were withdrawn from Tobruk to defend this position until surrendering.
They were also joined by Castagna's original Libyan machine gun companies, but it seems many of them took the chance to desert since they disappear later in his book.

Salvatore Castagna claims that the GaF companies transferred to Giarabub's defense from Tobruk were the 1st, 3rd, 7th, and 10th GaF companies, as well as some 47/32 and 20/65 guns.
However I don't have any information on what was left behind. Maybe the 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 8th, and 9th companies were kept around but I can't know for sure.
It's also possible that some of these companies corresponded with those from the 31st GaF Infantry Battalion. But again, I can't know for sure because of the inclarity of it all.
And other companies were transferred to Maddalena and random Egyptian rear areas, which I also can't track. So unfortunately this is useful information but not enough.

About the 20/65 guns, they might have been from the DICAT, or the militia for territorial anti-air defense. 2 groups of this force armed with 20/65s are said to be in Tobruk in June.
Montanari mentions this but fails to specifically point out that they were part of the DICAT, so when I read this the first few times I thought it referred to army units. Thanks for the confusion pal.
After that, they are never mentioned again, so I will presume they are among the units that were transferred out to replenish other garrisons.
12 20/65 guns are mentioned as joining the Giarabub garrison, though some such guns may have already been present. I think it's fair to say these were likely the DICAT groups. Let's see what Castagna says.
In his book, he confirms that there were 12 20/65 guns and one loose 77/28 for some reason. He does not mention their place of origin.
The batteries of the DICAT groups were the 201st-203rd for the 1st group and 204th-206th for the 2nd group, all batteries having 8 20/65 guns.

There's also an OOB for the 340th GaF Artillery Raggruppamento:
    342nd Group (818, 819, 837)
    344th Group (842, 843, 844)
    352nd Group (12, 16, 163)
    351st Group (852, 853, 856)
On pages, 202 and 203, the same is stored for the 290th, 330th, and 350th, but I can't be bothered to transcribe them.

An order on 1 June 1940 was meant to disband numerous GaF units, including the 14th Artillery Regiment, 1st Infantry Regiment, and the 31st and 32nd Infantry Battalions.
The 1st Infantry Regiment had been formed in Tripoli and effectively carried out all of tasks that the GaF had accross the entirely of Libya, or at least Tripolitania. Its depot was maintained for infantry and engineers.
I don't know when this was carried out, and I think it wasn't fully carried out at all, with many of these units remaining around until later, including the 31st Infantry Battalion.
At the same time, the depot of the 14th Artillery Regiment was kept around and used to deploy the other Raggruppamenti. So, for sure, this unit was disbanded successfully.
More information about the 14th Artillery Regiment: It is not to be confused with the 14th Artillery Raggruppamento, which was a distinct unit that remained exclusively on the Italian mainland's coast.

At formation, in June, the 31st GaF Artillery Raggruppamento was designated medium, or "medio calibro", while the 32nd was designated light, or "piccoli calibro".

If the 31st Infantry Battalion was disbanded, that does explain a lot, but also leaves just as many fresh questions. Perhaps this unit really was a temporary move like the 1st Infantry Regiment and would be returned back to sector control.
That said, because we know nearly nothing about the organization of these sectors, I'd like to keep it as it is.
It's possible to say that 4 infantry companies => 4 capisaldi and just create these new companies, but given I don't know which capisaldi they were, it's more trouble than it's worth.

The GaF artillery in Europe had a similar structure. Artillery regiments existed to serve as depots but in combat the artillery would be subordinate to the sector/strongpoint/fortification commands.
It appears that some fortifications were classified based on the types and number of guns contained within, but this was discontinued or didn't apply to Africa because those units do not fit into this schema.
This was later changed when the GaF's artillery was merged with existing static artillery. Now medium and small guns could be added with numbers varying from 3-8 for small and 3-6 for medium, though this still didn't apply to African units.
Some batteries were denoted as SP, "sempre pronte", or "always ready". This wasn't really the case though, as these "always ready" batteries took several hours to activate. Still, they were better than regular batteries that could take days.
The average artillery regiment prior to their dissolution down to depots included around 10 or 20 such sempre pronte batteries. None have been found in Africa.

GaF engineer units were truly mixed in nature, including both the men responsible for maintaining field fortifications, as well as those responsible for maintianing electricity, lights, and communication lines.
It appears these units were intended to be roughly company-sized, in fact they had originally been named companies. There were also some loose platoons but these were mostly absorbed. Each subsector would have one platoon from these companies.
Most were trained and equipped at GaF depots, but I've found some evidence indicating that some companies had the privilege of forming at regular army engineer regiment depots.

It seems only the XXI Corps in Cyrenaica had its own GaF command, or any GaF units at all. The others received some attached units, but that was it.
The chronology on this is a bit messed up. According to some, the Tobruk Fortress command was subordinate to this XXI Corps GaF Command role, while according to others it remained independent and later reached Pitassi Manella. Both could be true.
As for Tripolitania, the former Tripoli Fortress command was decisively converted to the XX Corps GaF Command. I don't think this "Tripoli Fortress" formation was ever reformed.

I think only A squadrons of the 6th Australian Division Reconaissance Regiment actually fought at Tobruk. The other 2 squadrons were responsible for the attack on Giarabub.
But like... who cares? The actions of the Australians, ultimately, are not all too relevant to me. They were given one of the easiest victories of the entire war and are still gloating about it.
No such sympathy for the Italians, they can't even get a decent book written about their part in this battle. The best we have is Montanari from last century.

I've also decided to look over some of Montanari's sketches from his second book, "the Second British Offensive in North Africa", which covers the Crusader period. Here's some takeaways:

It appears that the frontier area was not entirely under the command of Di Giorgis. Rather, the frontier was split into three sectors, with regular sectors for Halfaya and Sidi Omar and a special "Fortress Bardia".
"Fortress Bardia" was originally controlled by the Division z.b.V. "Afrika" but after it was relieved by elements of the Savona Division, Di Giorgis was effectively in control of all three.
It is interesting to know, though, that Major Bach really did have his own privileged command separate from the Savona Division that also included the 300th Oasis Battalion.

Not all of RECAM was available to support the Giovani Fascisti Regiment at Bir el Gubi. Most of it had moved north to hold the flank against the 7th Armored Division and was confused in its return.
To be fair, the mediocre amount of support elements and the confused and ad-hoc structure of RECAM itself likely greatly restricted its movement. I'm not surprised that its actions are far from impressive.
During the retreat, both Antelat and Sceleidima received detachments from the 90th Light Africa Division to guard the flank of the retreat. They were presumably pushed aside by the stronger detachments of 7th Support Group.

I also looked at the sketches for El Alamein and the retreat ot Tunisia but there wasn't too much to see. The one thing I did discover is detail about Menton's Kampfgruppe, which stayed out of El Alamein and screened the retreat.
In terms of the GaF, I think finding the exact names of the companies is a fool's task. But there is something we can do. We could consider that maybe the companies were numbered in order.

The GaF unit that was sent to support the Libyan Divisions was a provisional company with 10 47/32 guns. They were somewhere around the Tummar positions but were mixed in with some "regular" anti-tank companies.
While most Autotransportable Type 1940 AS divisions have a single company of 8 47/32 guns, at least for a time the Pavia and Brescia Divisions had a miserable little platoon of 2 47/32s and nothing else.
According to a random guy on the internet's tests, the 100/17 howitzer is much worse than the 100/28 gun, which has a shell with 12% more mass and 45% more range.

Based on a tentative mapping, I would assume the GaF companies were numbered from sea to sea, with 1 at Umm Cuheil and 12 at Es Zeitun.
Moving 1, 3, 7, and 10, and moving the remaining XXXI sectors in taken spots to the former XXXII sector positions, we get the following tentative report:
2nd Company at Bir Junes, 4th Company at Ras el Meduauar, 5th Company at Sidi Daud, 6th Company at Hagfet Umm Haleiga (half).
This is entirely conjecturous, though, which doesn't sit well with me. But it might be the best we can do given we know the XXXI Infantry Battalion had been disbanded.
Alternately I could simply refer to the subunits as capisaldi and establish 4 of them, with 1 at each of the remaining points. However I don't know if they would keep their original names or change when they moved.
I'm gonna need more time to think about this. Perhaps keeping a sort of "infantry battalion" but under a new name is the solution?

Apparently I was wrong that all GaF artillery was static. In fact, despite the lack of SP batteries, most Libyan aritllery that wasn't deployed in the fortified works was motorized.
It was kind of a necessity at this point. I think regular artillery units and corps artillery were also motorized in theory (but often not in practice due to deficiencies in transport).
The best solution to this is not to motorize them, but to at least not condemn them to death as hopelessly static units. And in fact giving them mobile artillery might make their actions at least a little more interesting.

Information on the 22nd CAR beyond its original order of battle is very hard to find. But at the very least I did find a first world war image of one of its siege batteries, the 238th.
There's also a picture of the 239th battery of the GaF online, but nothing else about the GaF batteries can really be found.

Upon its reformation, the Sabratha Division had managed to find about 5000 men from various areas of Libya and replacements coming from Italy. Despite this, it was still highly depleted.
Its 86th "Verona" (both had this designation) Regiment was designated as a "addestramento volontari" or training volunteers regiment due to its chaotic reformation using fresh troops.
It appears to have been formed to a relatively normal template and I can't find anything weird about it other than that it was understrength (but they all were).
Unlike that, the 86th "Verona" Regiment was established from the temporary Infantry Regiment "Sabratha" from a battalion of each as well as their mortar, anti-tank, and infantry gun companies.
It also had the attached units: 340th Anti-Tank Company, 18th and 42nd Artillery Groups (unknown), spare 88/55 and 75/46 batteries, a MILMART battery, and of course the 3rd San Marco Marine Battalion and Giovani Fascisti Regiment.
Since in my world the Sirte Division follows this lineage, what units should I attach to it? I'm gonna work on just the battalions for now and not worry about the support. It has:
61st "Sirte" Infantry Division: (auto-transportable type AS)
    69th "Ancona" Training Volunteers Regiment
    70th "Ancona" Infantry Regiment
        Former Infantry Regiment "Sirte"
    Artillery Raggruppamento "Sirte" (Listed as 42nd Artillery Regiment but this was disbanding)
    61st Mixed Enginer Battalion
    Infantry Regiment "Giovani Fascisti" (Only Temporarily)
Not Added:
    3rd "San Marco" Battalion
    18th Artillery Group
    42nd Artillery Group (AA)
Companies:
    340th 65/17 Battery (Former G.a.F?)
    75/46 Battery (Unknown Number)
    German 88mm Battery (Unknown Number)
    14th (76/30) Regia Marina MILMART Battery
I don't have a clue where either of these groups appeared or what happened to them. Maybe they were corps artillery?

Back to the GaF companies and the phantom 31st battalion. By this point I don't see any realistic timeline where the battalion survives. It has no reason to exist and is never seen again.
But I think now it's time to maybe step back and see the ambiguity in a different light. I know for a fact that this battalion was gone. And I have no idea what replaced it.
But if I don't know after all this digging, only the archives of the XXI Corps GaF Command in Italy know. They might even not. And I'm not going there. Nobody is anymore.
By all means, I am now the trailblazer in this field. I might actually be at the forefront of it. There might be nobody in the world, at least on the internet, who is at this point. I... have won.
No more need to read forums. I have all the knowledge I need to write those answers myself. It's been a long journey since the von Barby incident.
So yes. I am going to make my own semi-arbitrary decision regarding these areas. And if anyone wants to dispute me, let them try! They'll find my evidence for me.
I can only gain from going out on a limb. Let's go!

Let's return to reason.
There were 3300 men in June and 2300 in December.
Initially, the strongpoints of the 31st Sector had 300 men on average and those of the 32nd Sector had 250 men on average.
1000 men left Tobruk. They must necessarily be equal or similar in strength to the 4 GaF companies that replaced the 150th CC.NN. battalion. So each company had 250 men.
The reasonable math says that each sector must have lost 2 strongpoints, leaving 8. This doesn't align with the map, but there's another option.
Why would Barberis be so stupid as to have no reserves? If he deployed all 4 of his reinforcement companies, no reserve exists until the El Adem position. That's the thing I've been missing.
The 32nd Sector must have had more men. The full 4 strongpoints in fact, covering the positions alongside the reinforcement infantry. Another 2 from the 31st sector backed them up.
The remaining 2 from the 31st sector secured Meduauar and Sidi Cheiralla. In effect, the 31st sector took over the entirety of subsector 32/B.
That does mean, though, that I have to fit 4 more company-sized units into my order of battle. Unless we allow ourselves a little suspension of disbelief and... disappear the 32nd sector's 4 companies.

So the final result of all this? Instead of the 31st Infantry Battalion, we have the 31st/A Subsector. Nothing consequential happened.

Let's try to figure out some directionality in the subsectors. Nothing is provided for those of Tobruk, so instead I took a look at those of Tripoli.
For the 35th Coverage Sector, the subsectors move clockwise around the fortress. But that's it. None of the others gave me anything of value.
I guess I'll just go with the clean assumption. They went clockwise in Tobruk as well, to ensure a clean move from GaF to XXII command, these sectors were kept (except for a new one getting created).
But that means the 31st/A sector with 4 strongpoints covered the Acroma direction, while the 31st/B sector covered the Derna road. This one was replaced by the VdL battalion, so it's gone, leaving just the 31st/A.

One final wrench in the works is Montanari's claim that the XXXII sector just... didn't show up? Like it was assigned to cover the east, yet it is never mentioned as actually defending that area in the battle.
Rather, the XXXI sector gets the credit even though it was meant to be on the other side of the defensive network. It would've made absolutely no sense for them to swap, so what happened?
Perhaps the XXXII sector had just vanished by this point and, with few units left to handle, it was decided to merge the 2 sectors into a single one. I'm gonna take this as my guess.
It's entirely projective, but if so, clears up a lot. The 31st sector had been fully reorganized by Pitassi Mannella to take on the new organization of the defense. Thus the XXXII sector was entirely forgotten.

Here's my final reading of events:

June:
XXXI Sector: 6 Strongpoints, 1500 men
XXXII Sector: 6 Strongpoints, 1800 men

(Strange that XXXII is larger, as it had a shorter front to hold. But it would have been facing the most likely direction of an attack so it might have been prioritized.)

December:
XXXI Sector: 4 Strongpoints, 1000 men
XXXII Sector: 4 Strongpoints, 1300 men

Early January:
XXXI Sector: 8 Strongpoints, 2300 men
    XXXI/A Subsector: 2 Strongpoints, 500 men
    XXXI/B Subsector: 2 Strongpoints, 500 men
    XXXII/A Subsector: 2 Strongpoints, 600 men
    XXXII/B Subsector: 2 Strongpoints, 600 men
    +About 100 Men Somewhere
(XXXII Sector is never mentioned again)

This, above, is what the geographic analysis would give. However, I do have another method of analysis that I think gives me more valuable information.
That comes in the form of the final subsectors. Subsectors A and B are marked in Montanari's map with nothing, while Subsectors C, D, and E are marked with the 1st/70th, 3rd/70th, and "Volontari della Libia" Battalion HQs.
This makes me think that in contradiction to the geographic approach, in reality these other subsectors that were of the former XXXII Sector had all been disbanded. Only A and B were left and they were part of the XXXI Sector.

After Pitassi Mannella's Reorganization:
XXXI Sector: 8 Strongpoints, 2300 men
    XXXI/A Subsector: 4 Strongpoints, 1100 men
    XXXI/B Subsector: 2 Strongpoints, 600 men
    Strongpoint Hagfet Umm Haleiga: 300 Men
    Strongpoint Ras El Meduauar: 300 Men
(XXXII Sector is never mentioned again)

Hooray for cleanliness!

Another interesting question, not related to research but something to relax moreover, is the deployments in this alternate state. I kinda half-assed them but how would Pitassi Mannella as overall commander deploy his forces?
I'll probably just add this to events.txt though. No need clogging up my effective research log with entirely hypothetical material.

Some claims have indicated that two battalions of blackshirts and a machine gun battalion were sent to Tobruk in the early phases (Summer 1940) to bolster the ineffective GaF.
I'm well aware of what these two blackshirt battalions are. It could also be a typo for the two companies of the 140th Battalion, or it could be a reference to two that were later moved.
But for this machine gun battalion, I have no idea. Maybe it was just the native machine gun battalion of one of the divisions? It wasn't the Sirte since that was in Tunisia, but could easily be the Catanzaro.

There are translated versions of several of Montanari's books that can be found on Archive, but most of them are quite poor.
It's quite obvious that the translator, while somewhat fluent in Italian, has little to no knowledge about the actual structure and units of the Italian Army and shows little consistency with them.
There is at least some good news though. The scanning on these is somewhat higher quality, so I can see the illustrations with more detail. We can finally read the weird Tobruk map from "Operations" book 1.
Unfortunately, it's barely a help. There are 2 units that before confused me, and now I can read them clearly as 5/26 and 1/35. Both are labelled as artillery groups/battalions.

But this solves nothing. Let's look at 1/35 first because it's more obvious. There are a couple units the "35" might be, but all are false and here's why:
1. 35th Artillery Regiment. This was part of the 20th "Friuli" Infantry Division. None of this division ever went to North Africa.
2. 35th Coastal Artillery Raggruppamento. This was in the dodecanese, along with the 36th and 55th Raggruppamenti of the same type.
But... they had the 18th, 23rd, 29th, 30th, 32nd, 34th, 35th, 36th, 39th, 40th, and 41st groups. None are the 1st, so none of them could have contributed 1/35.
This is quite apparently a typo and its the first crack in this map. And I think another is right there with it:

5/26 quite obviously can't exist either. The 26th Artillery Regiment was from the Pavia Division and was definitely involved in the fighting, but it had no 5th group.
There's also the 26th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento from Albania, but this had only the 18th, 32nd, 115th, and 116th Heavy Howitzer Groups, none of which are the 5th.
Again, yet another thing that cannot possibly be true. The reliability of this map is truly impressive in how poor it is.
In "The First British Offensive" a similar map shows that this unit is actually the 105th Battery of the 25th CAR. How 105 became 5 and 25 became 26 is anybody's guess. A truly immense mistranscription.

I've managed to identify where almost all of the Libyan Coastal battalions were located. Here they are:
30th Libyan Coastal Battalion: XXVIII Coverage Sector
31st Libyan Coastal Battalion: Tobruk, XXXII Coverage Sector
32nd Libyan Coastal Battalion: XXIX Coverage Sector
33rd Libyan Coastal Battalion: Spread Out From Agedabia to the Libyan Sahara
34th Libyan Coastal Battalion: Bengasi-Barce Area, Later Reformed With Remnants, Maletti Group
35th Libyan Coastal Battalion: XXXI Coverage Sector (Later Moved)

This is not perfect, as it relies on Montanari's unreliable maps and an unreliable forum post, but it's better than nothing and proves that most of these units did exist.

Just learned some more Italian. Apparently, the reason for the abbreviations GG.FF. and CC.NN. with the doubled letters is because they were plural. A single "young fascist" would just be a G.F.

A standard Blackshirt battalion in 1940 had just 3 companies, but this was no longer the case for the African divisions, each of which was formed with 4 companies.
So, while the African Blackshirt Legions were by no means strong, they at least had 12 infantry companies rather than just 6, totalling almost 3000 men like a normal regiment rather than having half strength like most legions.

The DAK had some corps units that are shrouded in a bit of mystery. Luckily Niehorster's OOB for 22 June 1941 handles this. It appears that at this time the Afrika Division had no assigned units yet.
Sümmermann is also shown in command, and at the time was still a colonel (oberst). 155th Infantry Regiment is also shown as a loose staff with no subordinate units (all 5 3rd Battalions are corps troops).
As for communications, some fixed radio stations that I have no information are there, plus some military geology sections and the 900th engineer battalion.
The 523rd, 528th, 529th, and 533rd coastal artillery batteries are under the command of a 221st coastal artillery regiment. All are armed with captured 15cm French guns.
Finally, there are communications units. Those are Nachrichten-Abteilung Libyen (later Panzerkorps-Nachrichten-Abteilung 475), and the 3rd company of Panzerkorps-Nachrichten-Abteilung 56.

I do not know why the 2/13th Australian Battalion is sometimes listed under the Polish Independent Carpathian Brigade. While I've seen this quite a lot, Andreas at Rommelsriposte claims this never occurred.
Rather, the battalion was the infantry support of 32nd Army Tank Brigade and later part of 16th and 23rd Infantry Brigades of 70th Infantry Division.
I am no expert on the later phases of the Siege of Tobruk so I cannot offer an independent opinion. But if I had to guess, they were temporarily under Polish command but this didn't remain so when they entered combat.

Also Niehorster's OOB for the ARMIR has an 14th Arresto Company. I don't know if this is different or the same from a "Combattimenti di Arresto" company but I'm going to assume they are different.
Google Translate isn't perfect, but it calls the latter a "delaying" company which implies a mixed or infantry unit while the former is shown as an engineer unit. Either me or Niehorster could be making a mistake here but I'll take the blame for now.

Apparently the batteries of the Australian anti-tank regiments were numbered, and there were four each. So that's a whole bunch of mistakes I've recently made.

While it's not quite apparent that the XXXI G.a.F. Infantry Battalion didn't survive and was likely dissolved between June 1940 and December 1940, the fate of its 6 companions deployed in Albania unknown.
I'm not very well read in the Albanian-Greek campaigns and even if I were, odds are the shadowy job theire G.a.F. performed there would be just as difficult to discern as their fate in North Africa.

It's time to return the favor. I've finally worked up the courage to return to Wikipedia (which I haven't been on for a while) and return all I've gained so that future researchers won't have to do the same.

On tracking Lomax's 16th Infantry Brigade, after joining in the destruction of the Libyan Divisions Group at Sidi Barrani, appears to have moved to take a peripheral role in the battle of Bardia.
After that however, it appears to have returned to base to join the rest of the 6th/70th Division in planned operations against Syria. It wouldn't got to Tobruk until late 1941.

The Maletti Group's commonly cited order of battle at Nibeiwa is not the correct one. While it is true that the Raggruppamento had a mixed tank battalion with two companies of different types on formation, this changed.
In December, once the group was stationary, its tanks returned to their original units, and another tank battalion, the 2nd Medium, was temporarliy attached. It was this one that was destroyed at Nibeiwa.

If every necessary, here's an OOB for the opposing forces at Bir el Gubi:

22nd Armored Brigade
    2nd Royal Gloucestershire Hussars
    3rd County of London Yeomanry
    4th County of London Yeomanry
    (158 Total Crusader Tanks)
    C Battery, 4th Royal Horse Artillery
    B Company, 1st King's Royal Rifle Corps
    3rd Battery, 1st Light Anti-Aircraft Regiment
    Small Detachments of AT and Engineers

132nd Armored Division "Ariete"
    132nd Medium Tank Regiment (7th, 8th, and 9th Battalions)
    8th Bersaglieri Regiment (3rd Mixed Support, 5th, and 12th Battalions)
    132nd Artillery Regiment (1st and 2nd Battalions of 75/27)
    3rd Group, 3rd Fast Artillery Regiment (75/27)
    1st Group, 24th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento (105/28)

1700 lines later (first mentioned on line 352), we finally have answers to the question of where 232 different HMGs managed to sneak into the 1940 AS Autotransportable Division TOE.
The counting is the following:
    24 HMGs per infantry regiment (48 Total)
    18 HMGs from artillery regiment
    92 HMGs from L3 Tanks
    72 HMGs from the MG Battalion (12 per company)
    5 in the Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company
    9 in the Replacement Battalion (8 in the A/A company and 1 from idk)
    2 in the 65/17 batteries (apparently)
    222 Total... I guess 10 disappeared
The math works out but this was rarely true in reality. The tank battalion often didn't show up and the MG battalion often had less companies.
Also, some TOEs straight up show the machine gun battalion with only three companies, which makes more sense in terms of size, so I don't know what the Italians were cooking with this one.
Not with standing the 10 lost guns, since the actual MG battalions rarely had 6 companies, in practice the AS 1940 divisions were much weaker in machine gun firepower than they should have, contributing to their poor infantry performance.

Also found the theoretical composition of a Raggruppamento Genio di Corpo d'Armata
    Special Combat Engineer Battalion
    Signal Battalion
    Mobile Dovecote
    Chemical Company
There's no confirmation but I can be decently sure that this was the structure of the 22nd Corps support elements. Unless they had been caught out side the pocket, which Rostagno suggests occurred.
We do see that signals were kind of a mess and the 55th Signal Company probably was brought into the garrison to deal with this, so maybe that's another sign that the existing corps engineers were gone.

At Derna with the Tonini parachute troops was the elusive "Raggruppamento Pancano". I was unable to find literally anything about this unit, but thankfully Jeff Leser identifies it as the reconnaissance force of the Babini Group.

The histories of the 10th, 22nd, and 25th CARs are all quite hard to decipher. Little to nothing is known about any of them and most of them had absolutely unimpressive careers prior to their destruction.
Here's what is known:
10th CAR: Formed originally for use in Albania. Reformed for use in Africa with the 7th, 17th, and 35th groups. Only 7th and 17th groups remained by January.
Nothing is known about the fate of the 35th group. I did find a mention of it in a blog post about 1943, but that's far ahead so it doesn't give me much information.
22nd CAR: Formed from the 1st, 42nd, and 43rd groups and sent to Africa (Acroma). Was part of the GaF Tobruk artillery on June 17.
Only the 1st group and a loose battery were left by January. Nothing is known about the XLII and XLIII groups, neither of which are ever mentioned again with this caliber
25th CAR: Formed in Naples from the 105th, 130th, 148th, and 150th groups and sailed into Tobruk. Destroyed nearly immediately.

Big news! I've identified the 42nd group as surviving Compass. It pops up again in an order of battle for the Sabratha Division after Crusader, so it must have been detached.
This also makes a bit of sense since the 42nd group has the same number as the Sabratha's organic artillery regiment, which was mostly destroyed during Compass, but I guess this spare group survived.
But... this is incorrect. Because this XLII group was not a regular artillery group. It was an anti-aircraft group with 75/50 guns. Back to square one.
It later turns up at El Alamein, where the one battery of this group is identified as the 5th. Can't be sure if this is the same battery that was with the Sabratha Division, but either way my hopes are dashed.
In a rare moment of insight, Wikipedia has details about this group. There were four such groups, the XLI, XLII, XLIII, and XLIV, with what seems to be both the XLII and XLIII groups getting sent to Africa.
It appears each group had two batteries. They were armed with captured Czechoslovak 75/50 guns, which proved a decent gun almost comparable to the 88mm.

There's also an XLIII pack group that turns up in East Africa, but that's neither here nor there. Just an interesting tidbit that the numbers refused to be distinct.

I don't know what the establishment structure of the artillery specialist detachments were, since they were very unique units only assigned to corps artillery regiments.
However, I can now begin to take a guess that they were not artillerymen themselves. Rather, from similar "specialist" units in anti-tank roles, they were fire controllers and signalmen, and had no assigned firepower.

Also, the WW2 channel / Eastory screwed up again. In their maps of the Sicily landings, they showed only the Hermann Göring Division attacking the bridgehead at Gela, when in reality the Italian Livorno Division joined in.
This is one instance where the Italians really did perform well, and I would argue their troops showed much more courage given how outgunned they were.
It really is dangerous to hide such events from the public eye. The Italian Army was not useless as is often said and while they made many of mistakes there were numerous flashes of brilliance.
The refusal to display those may be an unintentional mistake or it may be the case of the animator deciding that the Italian contribution "wasn't important", but either way, it's a massive error that ruins my enjoyment of the video.

Niehorster claims that none of the divisional motorcycle Bersaglieri companies were ever formed. This was true as of June 1940 but was no longer true by December, when at least some companies had been received.
Certainly the 60th, 61st, and 63rd were formed and were with or near their divisions, but I can't really say the same for the other Type 1940 AS divisions which mostly had no such companies.

One of the strangest units I've ever seen was the 9th independent infantry battalion that shows up as part of the independent Giarabub-Siwa sector, along with the 4th Libyan Battalion.
But now, both of these units have been decently identified, so here they are:
IX Independent Infantry Battalion: A mixed support battalion formed for the 16th "Pistoia" Infantry Division, which was undergoing reorganization to Type 1942 AS structure.
Swapped names and places with the previous infantry battalion. Now as a regular infantry battalion, sent to Africa where it was probably destroyed in the retreat from El Alamein.
4th Libyan Battalion: The former 18th Libyan Battalion which had started Compass in Cyrenaica but had managed to get out prior to the annihilative battle of Beda Fomm.

There were also other independent infantry battalions from 1-10, all of which were sent to North Africa, as well as the 156-163, 185, 186, and 190, none of which went to Africa.
All were formed as AS 42 battalions. Some were absorbed and vanished, while others like the 9th were absorbed but took over the previous battalion's old elements.

The structure of the GaF is underexplained by all the sources, so let's go over it again:
Comando di Corpo d'Armata > Settore > Sottosettore > Caposaldo (fort) > Centro (1 position) > Nucleo (fireteam)
The Caposaldo was a company-sized formation, in rough terms, while the Centro was roughly platoon-sized unit. Larger units varied highly in size and establishment structure.

I've also found out why there's no static machine gun companies in Tobruk, except for the ambiguous 31st Infantry Battalion and its 3 machine gun companies.
This is because the static machine gun companies were interval units, meant to defend areas between fortifications. In Tobruk, where the forts were in an unbroken belt among the desert's flat terrain, this was not necessary.
Also, while Libyan static machine gun companies did exist in decent numbers in Africa, not only were none present in Tobruk, but they weren't part of the G.a.F in the first place and were functionally regular army units.
Also, some people are disagreeing about whether the XXXI and XXXII sectors were in the west and east, respectively, or the other way around. How this is even a disagreement, I cannot understand.

One more thing. I'm actually going to go insane. While the 5th, 6th, and 7th battalions of the G.a.F. were subject to the 31st Raggruppamento, this was not how they were formed.
Rather, they were formed as the 31st Groups of the 5th, 6th, and 8th G.a.F. Regiments.
I was entirely wrong about this, but it won't end up having an effect on the final orders of battle since having all the groups numbered as the 31st would be confusing as hell.

There is another mention of the 105/28 XLII group, but it's quite dubious. Wikipedia claims that such a group was previously attached to the Pavia Division.
But... there's a problem. In the original source this lists, "The Royal Army to 2000", the caliber of this group is never listed. And given context there's a good chance this was actually an anti-aircraft group.
It also lists a II/24th Group with 75/27 guns, but the 24th "Piemonte" Artillery Regiment's records never show any of its units moving to North Africa. This is likely another mistake, with the actual unit being from the 24th CAR.

Back to the 22nd CAR, I can't confidently say that not both of its 105/28 groups remained in Tobruk. 105/28s of roughly group or larger size appear at the frontier in December, but they might not even be real.
Originally that area had 2 total groups of 105/28 (1 group and 3 batteries in the sources) but it later had 2 groups and 2 spare batteries. That said, maybe these were the same units with a more confusing organization.
Not helping is another mention of "2 groups of 105/28" in a slightly earlier and less detailed report. These were probably the 2 105/28 groups (I and II) from the 21st CAR.
The 21st CAR does reappear with these 2 groups in Bardia so it's somewhat unlikely they survived, however. A decently reasonable possibility is that these two groups came instead from the 10th and 22nd CARs.
Another final possibility is that these were part of the 5th or 10th Army's Artillery Raggruppamento, neither of which I am sure had 105/28 guns but either of which could've recieved them from elsewhere.
The truth is not yet discernable from the fragmentary evidence above.

Given the confusing orders of battle, let's try to count the 105/28 guns that actually show up in the individual battles based on Montanari's narratives.
Raggruppamento Maletti:
    Nibeiwa: 1 105/28 Battery (from II/21st CAR)
    (Later information contradicts this and says it was from the XLIII/22nd CAR)
2nd Libyan Division:
    Tummar East: 1 105/28 Battery (from II/21st CAR)
    Ras el Dai: 1 105/28 Battery (from II/21st CAR)
1st Libyan Division + 4th CC.NN. Division:
    Sidi Barrani: 1 105/28 Group (Identity unknown. Maybe it was a GaF unit?)
63rd Division "Cyrene":
    Alam el Rabia: 1 105/28 Battery (from I/21st CAR)
    Point 236: 1 105/28 Group (-1 Battery) (from I/21st CAR)

Later: 3 Groups of 105/28 Destroyed
The 3rd of the groups was probably from the Cirene Division which had the I/21st CAR group. But actually now this is confirmed true.
So this confirms roughly that the 2 105/28 groups from the 21st CAR were lost. But there is a 3rd one that we cannot identify. Maybe the process of elimination will help here.

It's now known, by the way, that there wasn't a 25th group with the 10th CAR. Rather, the 25th group was formed by the 12th CAR with 149/35 guns. Classic typo.
10th CAR (2 (17, 35)): 17th destroyed at Tobruk, 35th destroyed at Bardia
20th CAR (2): Both destroyed at Beda Fomm
21st CAR (2): Both destroyed at Sidi Barrani
22nd CAR (2 (42, 43)):
23rd CAR: Didn't Exist Lol

Let's now return to the chart that Montanari provided on Page 258 of "Operations" and see if we can decipher it.
Um... this doesn't help like at all. There are 80 total 105/28 guns, which is kind of insane and I don't know where any of them were.
Yeah, no designations for any of these units are given, many of them might actually be reserves or something, or gunless batteries and batteryless guns, this just isn't much to go on.

12 December:

Tobruk:
16 149/35
    244th GaF Battery (4)
    245th GaF Battery (4)
    GaF Section "Buffolotto" (2)
    Training Battery (1)
    GaF Reserve Guns (5)

12 120/25
    242nd Bis Battery (4)

    GaF Reserve Guns (8)
    OR
    244th Bis GaF Battery (4)
    245th Bis GaF Battery (4)
    OR
    230th Bis GaF Battery (4)
    231st Bis GaF Battery (4)
4 105/28
    GaF Reserve Guns (4)
    OR
    232nd Bis Battery (4)
    (Later Transferred to 22nd Corps Group)

Bardia:
16 120/25
    3rd/30th GaF Group (8)
    4th/30th GaF Group (8)
(Some other claims indicate just 12 120/25. Perhaps the batteries had only 3 guns apiece.)

Reserve (Tobruk and Bardia):
48 149/13
    105th/25th Corps Group (12)
    130th/25th Corps Group (12)
    148th/25th Corps Group (12)
    150th/25th Corps Group (12)
48 105/28
    17th/10th Corps Group (12)
    35th/10th Corps Group (12)
    42nd/22nd Corps Group (12)
    43rd/22nd Corps Group (12)

Maneuver:   
28 105/28
    Group/20th Corps Group (12)
    Group/20th Corps Group (12)

    GaF Reserve Guns (4)
    OR
    Spare Unnumbered Battery (4)

(By this point, numerous guns, including about 36 105/28 pieces, had already been lost at the camps)
(I do not know for sure, but I believe the "GaF Reserve Guns" options are typically the most likely correct)

I also cross-checked with Montanari's maps. He shows 6 105/28 batteries in 2 groups.
I think these were likely the 22nd CAR in its entirety. The unit might have been nearly or completely wiped out at Bardia and we just didn't notice it.

Random aside, but I don't know why many orders of battle don't list the VII group (100/17) as part of the 10th CAR. It's confirmably there. Maybe it left temporarily and this wasn't recorded.

Another book referenced on Wikipedia helps, but in the most useless way possible. It gives the number of 76... total 100/17 and 105/28 guns. Time to count!
76 Total
40 100/17
    I/44th Artillery Regiment "Marmarica" (12)
    I/45th Artillery Regiment "Cirene" (12)
    I/201st Artillery Regiment (CC.NN.) (8)
    I/202nd Artillery Regiment (CC.NN.) (8)
36 105/28
    35th/10th CAR (12)
    42nd/22nd CAR (12)
    43rd/22nd CAR (12)

And 27 120mm and 149mm guns total, another not very useful number.
27 Total
20 120/25
    3rd/30th GaF Group (8)
    4th/30th GaF Group (8)
    243rd GaF Battery (4)
4 120/45
    Naval Battery "Ostro"
+3 Somewhere (Likely another naval battery?)
(Possibly the Naval Battery "Espero". Information on either of these is hard to come by.)

149/35 (Not Counted?)
    238th GaF Battery (4)
    239th GaF Battery (4)

The +3 leaves a lot to be desired, but with the limited information this is the best I can come up with.
And it works out at least for the 100/17 and 105/28 guns. This was the original objective, and I can say it's at least partially accomplished.
Having done this counting, I'll update the earlier list of 105/28 groups.

10th CAR:
    7th Group (100/17): Destroyed at Tobruk
    17th Group (105/28): Destroyed at Tobruk
    35th Group (105/28): Destroyed at Bardia (Referred to by Montanari as the I group but no other records show this)
20th CAR (2): Both destroyed at Beda Fomm
(Specifically, they were both at Berta and weren't able to retreat from Cyrenaica)
21st CAR (2): Both destroyed at Sidi Barrani
22nd CAR (2):
    1st Group (100/17): Destroyed at Tobruk
    42nd Group (105/28): Destroyed at Bardia (Likely)
    43rd Group (105/28): Destroyed at Bardia (Likely)
GaF:
    232nd Bis Battery: Dissolved, Guns Later Absorbed by 22nd CAR

With all the above research, here's the changelist:
Composite Battery of the 22nd CAR renamed to a Mixed Battery (42nd and 43rd Groups weren't there)
(This was already a change, just now it's locked in and has actual historical evidence behind it)
...And that might be it. I've learned a lot, but it's mostly confirmations of what I'd already approximated using pure assumption.

A couple claims I've seen say that the Free French 1st Marine Infantry Battalion participated at Tobruk and Sidi Barrani.
That said, these claims are on internet forums by people who really don't sound like the most trustworthy and show little respect for the Italians, which rubs me the wrong way.
With no decent evidence that this actually happened and had a major impact on the battle, I have no reason to execute on this potential change.
The Italians do seem to agree that some units of Free French were on the western direction, at least according to Montanari. Their identity remains unknown but it lends credence to French claims.

With more research having been done, this decision will be reversed. I now have much more information on this unit and know it was at Tobruk.
It was formed from a total of 500 personnel, defectors who escaped in two groups, one of 150 men from Lebanon and the other of 350 men from Cyprus.
The resulting battalion, the 1st Marine Infantry Battalion (1er Bataillon d'Infanterie de Marine), had two companies and was commanded by a Captain Folliot.

On another note, it appears the Royal Northumberland Fusiliers (1st MG Battalion) were transferred immediately from 4th Indian to 6th Australian Division when the swap occurred.
On the other hand, the Cheshire Regiment's 1st Battalion, another MG Battalion, appears to have been attached to the same division only in mid-January.

Also, I've heard many people and sources call the structure of the Blackshirt divisions "poor". While undoubtably these units performed badly I think this was due to the quality of the men, not the structure.
In reality, I think the structure was fairly reasonable. It was just like the Type 1940 AS Autotransportable Division but with 1/3 less artillery and similarly reduced infantry.
People have also said that the armament of the blackshirt battalions was poor. Again I have to disagree. They have a similar number of machine guns and slightly less mortars, but those were the outdated 45mm mortars.
Other than that, the only major differences are the loss of the replacement and light tank battalions, neither of which I consider to be all that damaging of a change.

One other interesting thing to think about, though it's not much use for wargames, is how the "effective" GaF was reconstituted in Cyrenaica after its conquest by Rommel.
Niehorster is the only source I have about this, but I haven't searched very hard. It seems a brigade-sized unit had become responsible for Tobruk's Garrison as part of a larger Tobruk\Cyrenaica fortress command.
It contained the 3rd Battalion, 350th GaF Infantry Regiment, 7th Bersaglieri Battalion, 5th Libyan Battalion, 18th Carabinieri Battalion, 345th Coastal Artillery Group (8 120/25), and the 90th Group, 2nd Anti-Aircraft Regiment (12 75/46).
The 8 120/25 guns that the 345th Group contained could've been the guns from the 230th Bis and 231st Bis batteries of the G.a.F. that were part of the XXXI/6th Group and were destroyed in the same town.

Attemping to count every 120/25 gun challenge: There were 74 operational total according to some claims.
By December 1941, 5 batteries (847, 849, 850, 851, and 859) still used this gun. These were all from the former Fortress Tripoli.
That's not it, though only 4 batteries, two with just three guns, are listed back in June. I can't tell where the bonus battery appeared from.
4 batteries of unknown number were assigned to the 30th Raggruppamento at Bardia. All were destroyed in that battle.
Tobruk originally had 4 batteries of 120/25. One was sent to Bardia and it seems the other three stayed there and were destroyed in that battle.
This is slightly messed up as Montanari only mentions 7 such batteries between Tobruk and Bardia, which seems to be the better number.
Finally, 7 batteries of unknown number were in the garrison of Addis Ababa and were destroyed in that battle.

The total thus reaches between 18 batteries and 20 batteries. That's not far from 74 if we assume that some of the batteries had just 3 guns or had more.
I think the best answer to this is 19 batteries for a normal 76 guns, except for the 2 batteries that were down a gun.
Final Count:
Tripoli: 14
Tobruk: 16 (242, 243, 230bis, 231bis)
Bardia: 16
Addis Ababa: 28

Another blessing. Looking through the archives of Comando Supremo, I've found another post by Jeff Leser that proves my guesses about Bardia right.
The XLII and XLIII groups are now confirmably there, having been used to form the previously nonexistent 23rd CAR.
So, I guess I was wrong about that, since the 23rd CAR was never established at a depot but managed to form in the field with these two groups at full strength.
Unless... this was a mistake by Maurizio. It's certainly a possibility. I'll make sure never to include this 23rd CAR in any of my Orders of Battle.
In addition, he notes two 149/35 batteries (238 GaF, 239 GaF) and a 105/28 battery (232 bis GaF), and the 15th and 16th 20mm batteries, also from the 22nd CAR.

Somebody has mentioned a 502nd 20/65 Battery under the command of the Brescia Division. This probably was part of the replacement for its old artillery lost at Tobruk.
Nobody in the archives responded to him, so I have nothing else to go on. I couldn't find anything on the internet either.
The numbering is also quite weird. This unit has nothing in common with any of the units in the Brescia Division, so its very existence if so would be an abberation.
I have now solved this, as it appears that this battery was in fact in the same series as the 503rd and 504th. It was subordinated to the 1st Fast Artillery Regiment.

I haven't mentioned this previously, I believe, but I just thought about how thin the defenders actually were. It's a surprise they even tried.
On a frontline of 54,000 meters, they had 24,000 men, 340 guns, and 23,000 mines. And only about half of those men would have actually been frontline troops, and many of the mines were defective.
Thus, for a frontline of 5 meters, a single man with 2 possibly defective mines would be present. That's almost nothing against even a single squad of attackers. It's no surprise they lost the battle.
Also, the rear line was a shorter 25,000 meters, but the need to split the already-thin combat infantry between two lines definitely further weakened each one individually.

Another thing that I think I've discovered is that the anti-aircraft battery of the tank infantry regiments was typically the 7th, counting after 2 battalions of c companies each.
This is only confirmed for the Ariete Division's 132nd Regiment which transferred it to the Artillery Regiment, so this is quite hard to prove, but it's the best I have so far.

An opposing source notes the existence of a 33rd and 133rd 20/65 Companies, which could only be from the Littorio Division. If this was the case, you'd expect the 4th to have a 4th as well.
Still, a 4th battery does appear, but only as part of Raggruppamento Maletti, and this may have been a Libyan unit of some kind if not from the 4th Tank Infantry Regiment.
But if this unit was with Maletti, there's no reason to think it made it out alive. Rather, I think there's one more option that I just haven't considered so far yet makes sense.
This battery might not have been organic. What if it had been transferred from the Sirte Division, say, the 261st battery? That would solve another question at the same time.
Of course I'll still have to search for better, but for now, this is legitimately the best option I can imagine and is the one I will be using in future OOBs.

An updated counting of guns is thus probably in order by this point, and may in fact be used to establish my planned final set.

Field Guns
    48 75/27
        2nd/43rd Artillery Regiment (12)
        3rd/43rd Artillery Regiment (12)
        2nd/55th Artillery Regiment (12)
        3rd/55th Artillery Regiment (12)
    12 75/46
        15th Anti-Aircraft Group (12)
    3 76/30
        Naval Spare Guns (3)
    2 77/28
        Training Battery "Vittoria" (2)
    63 100/17
        1st/22nd Corps Artillery Regiment (12)
        7th/10th Corps Artillery Regiment (12)
        1st/26th Artillery Regiment (12)
        1st/43rd Artillery Regiment (12)
        1st/55th Artillery Regiment (12)
        GaF Spare Guns (3)
    16 105/28
        17th/10th Corps Artillery Regiment (12)
        1st Battery/22nd Corps Artillery Regiment (4)
    12 120/25
        242nd Battery (4)
        244th Bis Battery (4)
        245th Bis Battery (4)
    4 120/45
        Naval Battery "Nembo" (4)
    1 149/12
        Training Battery "Vittoria" (1)
    48 149/13
        105th/25th Corps Artillery Regiment (12)
        130th/25th Corps Artillery Regiment (12)
        148th/25th Corps Artillery Regiment (16)
        150th/25th Corps Artillery Regiment (8)
    11 149/35
        244th Battery (4)
        245th Battery (4)
        GaF Section "Buffolotto" (2)
        GaF Spare Gun (1)
        (Bardia only had 7 149/35 guns, so 1 of them must have been left behind)
    Total: 220

Anti-Tank Guns
    10 77/28
        246th Battery (4)
        247th Battery (4)
        31st Libyan Coastal Battalion (2)
    1 76/40
        Spare Naval Gun (1)
    11 75/27
        140th Blackshirt Battalion (3)
        249th Battery (4)
        Training Battery "Derna" (4)
    13 65/17
        69th Infantry Gun Company (4)
        70th Infantry Gun Company (4)
        Provisional Infantry Gun Company (5)
    43 47/32
        25th Anti-Tank Battery (6)
        61st Anti-Tank Battery (8)
        Provisional Anti-Tank Battery (6)
        GaF Positions (22)
        GaF Spare Gun (1)
    39 37/10
        1st Medium Tank Battalion (in the tanks) (39)
    Total: 117

Navy
    8 149/17
        Naval Battery "Bellotti" (4)
        Naval Battery "Grasso" (4)
    18 102/35
        Naval Battery "Beiad" (6)
        Naval Battery "Sidi Mahmud" (6)
        Naval Battery "Pilastrino" (6)
    16 76/40
        Naval Battery "Tordo" (6)
        Naval Battery "Toro" (6)
        Naval Battery "Topo" (3)
        Naval Battery "Pilastrino" (1)
    4 254/30
        Floating Battery "San Giorgio" (4)
    4 190/45
        Floating Battery "San Giorgio" (4)

Extra Total - 42 AT Guns in the Eastern Sector
    8 20/65 (10th Battery, 20th Corps Artillery Regiment)
    22 47/32 (GaF Positions)
    8 77/28 (246th and 247th Batteries)
    4 75/27 (249th Battery)

An interesting thing I found was that the 256th GaF Battery, which consisted of 65/17 guns, managed to make it to Africa to defend Derna from its previous deployment in the Alps.
A truly unlucky unit, given that none of its compatriots from up there met the same fate until 1943 or later.
Actually no, because the 252nd GaF Battery actually did meet the same fate. Imagine being one of these gunners, sent to another continent just to be captured in the conclusion to a great disaster.

The entire 12th GaF artillery regiment from which these batteries (252-257) came from had been sent to North Africa near the end of 1940 and deployed forward to the 10th Army.
It was on the French front at the beginning of the war and reached Naples by the 24th of June. Their ship left on December 26 and they joined combat on the 5th of January with the Sabratha Division.
Only two batteries escaped Beda Fomm, one of the 257th. This battery would ultimately be destroyed along with the rest of the Savona Division when it ran out of supplies at Halfaya.

To this day, I still can't figure out what the artillery specialist companies actually did. I can take a guess, but without much information about that, I'd probably do well to not add it to any listings.

The 65/17 batteries of the Sirte Division were sent to support the Cirene Division in June. As we know, by the later battle two such batteries still existed, which raises osme questions.
The two possiblities are that the batteries managed to retreat safely or were transferred back (which seems unlikely but possible) or that two new batteries were formed (of numbers I cannot know).
In fact, this source has enough detail that I can make an attempt to count up where all the 65/17 batteries of the various divisions were.
19,20 "Pavia" (actually Brescia) - 1st Libyan Division
69,70 "Sirte" - 63rd "Cirene" Infantry Division
27,28 "Brescia" (actually Pavia) - 62nd "Marmarica" Infantry Division
15,16 "Savona" - 1st CC.NN Division "23 Marzo"
So, the batteries that survived are those of the Bologna and Sabratha Divisions. Lemme see if any records of the Sabratha's are around.
My check indicates that the two batteries of the Sabratha Division stuck around and were between Derna and Mechili. So it could only be the Bologna now.
One of them was part of the 1st "nucleo motorizzato" of the Sabratha Division's deployment, while the other doesn't appear in OOBs but does appear in maps and was presumably transferred to Babini's control.

Also, Maurizio, the above source, admits himself that his information is erroneous in some parts. And I'm gonna have to agree.
It makes much more sense for the 2 batteries sent to the Cirene Division to be the ones from the Bologna Division. Why rob a fellow division in the theater when you could rob the 5th Army instead?

Based on similar circumstances from Bardia, the 4 companies deployed to support the GaF in Barberis's sector were probably not actually deployed in the strongpoints.
At Bardia, the 63rd Machine Gun Battalion had its 4 companies split into company strongpoints behind the lines. It seems fairly reasonable for the Tobruk Garrison to make the same decision.

One battery of the 105th/25th CAR was numbered the 10th. I did a bit of research and apparently the groups were individually numbered with 105/28 guns getting numbers 1-50.
This is cool, but I have absolutely no means of obtaining the numbers for any other similar units so unfortunately I won't be able to do much with this and won't execute on it.
Also this source baited me, since I initially searched for batteries and I instead got information about battalions/groups. Not much help here...
On a similar note, one battery of the 2nd/21st CAR was numbered the 4th. I have nothing else on this matter.

I found a book about Italian artillery's entire history. Only 1 book, Volume 16, deals with WW2 and it's fragmentary and shares information with Montanari, but it's much, much better than nothing.
Here's the main things I've found from it:

Tobruk:
I (and Montanari) was right that 1 battery from the CL group was tranferred to the CXLVIII group.
The XXXI/6 group had at least 1 120/25 battery. That's something I got temporarily wrong, and can only be blamed on Rostagno.
But... it's possible that this was actually the 242nd Battery, though that also creates more questions than answers.
A group "Tramontin" (the 55th Artillery Regiment's commander) was formed as a sub-group of the central artillery group.
Here's my guess as to its order of battle:
    II/43
    III/55
    CV/25 Corps
    (Maybe naval units)
Pitassi Mannella was an attaché with the Ecuadorian Army in the early 1920s. His title of "King of Artillerymen" was quite well-earned.
The commander of the I Group, 12th "Sila" Artillery Regiment was a Lt-Col. Nicolò.

Wider Compass:
At the start of the Libyan campaign, there were 72 105/28 guns and 24 149/13 guns. Other numbers are provided but they are too large for me to reasonably count up.
There are also numbers for the Aegean and for metroplitan Italy, but these numbers are also not all that helpful for me. Still, it's nice to have this in my back pocket.
Also, this data is backdated to December 1939. It's not too far back, but it also could have some serious deficiencies since I know major changes occurred in early 1940.

At least some kind of artillery command for the 23rd CAR existed, under the command of a Colonel Luigi Podio.
The XLII group was also certainly there. It used vehicles from the 17th/10th group to reach Sidi Barrani.
It was also under the command, at least temporarily, of a raggruppamento led by the 12th "Sila" Artillery Regiment's commander, Grande.

One 47/32 group each from the Bologna, Pavia, and Sabratha Divisions were transferred to the North African high command.
I was wrong about the 69th and 70th 65/17 groups. They were given to the 10th Army, though maybe they made it back.
The Savona Division's infantry gun batteries also later reappear despite having been transferred, so maybe they also made it back or were reformed with fresh guns (or former GaF guns).

GaF artillery commander identities have been found (mostly Lt-Col.s):
31st GaFAR - Guido Baggini
32nd GaFAR - Gaetano Mesiano
(There's also data in this book for the rest of the GaFARs, but I'm not going to transcribe them here as they are irrelevant.)

The commander of the 17th Battery of the VI Libyan Artillery Group (from the 1st Libyan Division) was an Amadio. The battery was destroyed in June just as the war began.
The VI Libyan Group's commander was a Paolo Sabbataini. He did not survive the attack on the Tummars and his command was wiped out.
And the commander of the 18th Battery was a Captain Fascietti. The book has a pretty expansive section about the last stand of these men and their units.
The 2nd Libyan Division had the I and II groups, while the 1st had the VI and VII groups, and anti-aircraft (20/65) batteries with the same numbers for each group.

Other than its 100/17 and 105/28 groups, the 22nd Corps Artillery Raggruppamento had the following 20/65 batteries:
13th and 14th, organic. 10th and 11th, from the 2nd CC.NN. Division. 27th, from the Brescia Division.
The 22nd CAR also had only 22 guns in its 2 (XLII, XLIII) groups of 105/28, rather than the normal 24.

Funny story, I got trolled by google translate because the Italian "salmerie", which means the pack train or vehicles, was translated as "charcuterie".

Changes to make:
Commanders for the 31st and 32nd GaF Artillery Raggruppamenti

Another theory that I've come to believe. I believe Montanari screwed up when he transcribed Rostagno's OOB, specifically dropping just a single line.
There are two instances of the "XXXI settore di copertura (meno 2 capisaldi)" line. There's no reason for this, in fact one of them is just out of place. This second one must be a mistake.
This second line is, in fact, in the exact spot where detail about the makeup of the XXXI/6 group would be mentioned. And that's the exact one with two 120/25 batteries.
While obviously I can't know the battery numbers (despite my best efforts so far), I realize now that this solution really is a highly likely one that I'd just previously discounted.
This is what he said if you don't apply my changes, and it makes no sense. You can see how the 2nd mention of the 31st Coverage Sector could be a typo:

31st Coverage Sector (Minus 2 Strongpoints)
Elements of the 32nd Coverage Sector
-242nd Battery / XXXI/5 (4 120/25)
31st Coverage Sector (Minus 2 Strongpoints)
-244th and 245th Batteries / XXXI/7 (4 149/35 Each)
-249th Battery / XXXII/1 (4 75/06) (75/27 Mod. 06)
-246th Battery / XXXII/2 (4 77/28)
-247th Battery / XXXII/3 (4 77/28)
(More elements)

I looked but I don't think Rostagno's document is anywhere. Only in the archives in Rome can they be found, and I doubt anybody has that around. I searched all over the internet but found nothing.
With that, there's no way to find if this is his mistake or if it is Montanari's. It's a very strange mistake too, so I really cannot understand how this could've possibly happened.

Given the 243rd Battery was part of XXXI/5 and never appears, the best solution is to finally accept that the 230th and 231st bis batteries were there.
Maybe they had been renamed, but there's nothing I can do about that. No sources say anything about the GaF bis batteries, but at least until 1943 this designation existed, so I see no reason to think this happened.
In fact, even by early 1942 some bis units still appeared, though not in large numbers. The designation was certainly still in use, however, and I don't think any mass renaming occurred.
After so long... this might be it.

There is no updated version of "The First Offensive". I painstakingly went back to the Issuu version but it seems to be entirely identical.
I also looked through "La Guardia alla Frontiera" but didn't find much.

The 251st and 254th GaF batteries weren't at Tobruk but appear to have been part of the defense of either Derna or Benghazi since they reappaer at Berta with the Sabratha Division.
Actually there were a whole bunch of these, lol.

Part of the Sirte Division's transport to from Tripoli to Benghazi took place aboard the transport "Calitea" in mid-July 1940.
Tomasso Mosetti, a prisoner from the Sirte Division, was a member of the 2nd Battery, 1st Group, 22nd Corps Artillery Raggruppamento (100/17).

I found a collection of postcards from the Sirte Division's prisoners of war. Given most of the division was captured these should reflect the makeup of the division. Let's see what we get:
I later also found some mail that was sent by families of the prisoners to the office of the Vatican, which gives similarly fragmentary information.
Subunits:
61st "Sirte" Infantry Division
    69th Infantry Regiment
        (Many postcards with only regiment identification)
        2nd Battalion
            7th Company - Corporal Major Antonio Schipani
    70th Infantry Regiment
        (Many postcards with only regiment identification)
        1st Battalion
            1st Company - Soldato Pasquale Miusi
            3rd Company - Soldato Tommaso Fruci
        2nd Battalion
            6th Company - Soldato Pasquale Materazzo
            7th Company - Fante (Private) Gaetano Friio
            (The recruit title is Soldato, but this is replaced when a soldier joins a specialized unit, in this case infantry)
        3rd Battalion
            Soldato Gennaro Scicchitano
            9th Company
                Soldato Giuseppe Ammirati
                Soldato Francesco Drago
            12th Company - Corporal Trentino Jorfida
    43rd Artillery Regiment
        (Many postcards with only regiment identification)
        2nd Group
            6th Battery - Sorrentini
    61st Machine Gun Battalion
        3rd Company - Vincenzo Modaffari
4th Tank Infantry Regiment
    Marcello Floriani
    Pietro Mittica

The one thing I gain from this is to know that the 70th Infantry Regiment had two of its rifle companies, the 6th and 7th (haha). I don't know where its 5th is but there's now no reason to believe it was elsewhere.

It's not exact, but it's noted that the 140th Blackshirt Battalion had "2 rifle companies". The 4th company was a support weapons company, so this implies (which I agree with) that the 2 companies were the 1st and 2nd.

The 2/1st Anti-Tank regiment did not participate in Operation Crusader as it had only just arrived. That's a mistake on my part to assume it was in action.

Other than the 55th Artillery Regiment, the Brescia Division also gave up its 2 infantry gun companies and its anti-tank company to the 10th Army, all of which would be slowly replaced.
The new anti-tank companies (yes, there were multiple now) were numbered the 5th, 71st, and 227th, all with 47/32 guns.
The infantry gun companies were also replaced, respectively, with the 34th "Livorno" and 38th "Ravenna", both of 65/17 (as normal).
The 55th Artillery Regiment in Rostagno's report has at least one 65/17 company, but of unknown number. If I find more about this in the future I could assign that company a number.
If so, however, it would have escaped destruction at Sidi Barrani and Bardia under either the 1st Libyan or the 62nd "Marmarica" Divisions, which seems like a tall order but not an impossible task.

The Savona Division also had just a single infantry gun company that was subordinated to the 16th Infantry Regiment. I couldn't find anything about its number.

On reformation with the 283rd and 284th groups, the Artillery Raggruppamento "Sabratha" had just 5 batteries, with 3 and 2 respectively in the groups.
All were of 75/27. There were some spare anti-tank, anti-air, and infantry guns but no more regular field guns or howitzers. But it's fair for a division with just 4 infantry battalions (Regio Esercito describes them as companies but that's unlikely).
By May 1942, though, the division might have returned mostly to normalcy. Its artillery regiment had once again a full headquarters and number as the 42nd, and there were now three groups with the new 3rd having 100/17 guns.

On the 17th of August, 1939, so quite far off, the 31st Mixed Engineer Detachment (part of the GaF, and subordinated to the 31st Coverage Sector) had a strength of 4 officers, 14 NCOs, and 97 enlisted men. (115 total)
These groups do see to vary in size. The one for Tripoli had a total of 177 men, while the one for Nalut (the middle of nowhere) had just 61. Overall, though, they all seem to be at least on part with company size.
Honestly, 115 men doesn't even seem like a company after later thought. It might make sense to call it a platoon, in fact, since it doens't seem to have operated independently if at all.
Actually, no, this was in fact company size. At times even I can completely and utterfly forget the basics and it makes me look stupid. Sorry about that, everyone!

I never realized for while that the numbers given to "points" by the Germans and British are not arbitrary. They simply refer to the altitude of the position, which simplifies decisions for commanders.
The Italians do similar, although they use the term "quota", abbreviated "q.", but it means the same thing and is used for the exact same purpose.

I'm currently reading "Storia della Fanterie Italiane", more specifically volume 14, which is one of the two volumes about WW2.
However, this one isn't on archive.org in a decent manner, so I'm stuck reading page by page on Issuu. So we're gonna need some notes for this.
https://issuu.com/rivista.militare1/docs/storia-delle-fanterie-vol-14-testo/97?e=438&o=1%20 (the page number?e=very large number)
Part 1 - The Armored and Parachute Forces
    Page 29 - The Armoured Forces
        Page 41 - The Motorized and Armored Elements
        Page 61 - The Evolution of the Armoured Force
        Page 75 - The Tank Infantry Regiments
            Page 79 - The 4th Tank Infantry Regiment
        Page 97 - "Centauro" Division
        Page 111 - "Ariete" Division
        Page 127 - "Littorio" Division
    Page 302 - State of the Army at the Start of the War
    Page 324 - The War Against France
    Page 350 - The First Operations in North Africa
        Page 360 - The First British Offensive and the Italo-German Counteroffensive (Compass & Sonnenblume)
Part 2 - Combat Histories
    Page 4 - The East African Campaign
        Page 10 - The British Counteroffensive
    Page 26 - The War Against Greece
    Page 62 - The War Against Russia
        Page 82 - The Operations of the ARMIR
        Page 100 - The Second Battle of the Don
    Page 118 - The Defense of Sicily

Other than providing unit histories, though, this source is quite terrible. It doesn't have much from the British point of view and engages in quite a bit of glorification.
While bringing nothing new to the Tobruk table, it repeats the insane claim that the British had five divisions and the Free French a brigade in the attack force.
The accompanying map is also entirely irrelevant as it's Montanari's map from almost a year later during Operation Crusader. Safe to say it's not very helpful.

Other than the 52nd Medium Tank Battalion of RECAM, there was also 51st Medium Tank Battalion that was part of the Littorio Division and was commanded by Salvatore Zappalà.
This division was highly incomplete upon it joining the battle of June 19, 1942. Many of its elements had been taken to replenish the Ariete Division, so it would be missing many elements until they were rebuilt by Second El Alamein.
Those units that were left were the 12th Bersaglieri Regiment, the 51st Medium Tank Battalion, and a single battery of 75/27 guns. The 12th Bersaglieri were also down their mixed support battalion.
Some elements had also been lost on transport or had failed to be transported in the first place, further weakening what was left of this division, down to barely brigade strength.
Thus, it's order of battle was this sorry jumble of incomplete units:
133rd "Littorio" Armored Division (Gervasio Bitossi)
    12th Bersaglieri Regiment
        23rd Motorized Bersaglieri Battalion
        36th Motorized Bersaglieri Battalion (1/3 Strength in 1 Company)
        12th Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company
    51st Medium Tank Battalion (2 Companies)
    1 Battery / 321st Artillery Group (4 75/27)
Total: 7 Companies. That's about the same strength as the Division z.b.V. "Afrika" was on deployment.
A 12th Medium Tank Battalion had also been arrived and unlike the 10th and 11th, weren't robbed by the Ariete and Trieste Divisions, but had its own deficiency: all its tanks had been lost en route.

The 4th Tank Infantry Regiment was outlasted by its child formation, as it was responsible for the formation of the headquarters of the 132nd Tank Infantry Regiment.
It did get reconstituted and again meet its end in Operation Achse, but until then it functioned only as training formation and did not see any combat of real proportions.
The 1st Medium Tank Battalion had gotten into an engagement of November 19, 1940, where it saved some motorized men from ambush at huge losses to itself. I now see why many of the its tanks were in a state of utter disrepair, with only 7 operational.
While the tanks that were mobile, all 7 of them, were organized into a company, the 3 tanks that were semi-mobile were only enough to form a platoon. So at least there was a realistic appreciation of their strengths.
Remaining elements of the 4th Tank Infantry Regiment that were to begin rebuilding it were lost on the troopship "Conte Rosso" (Red Count) that was sunk on May 24, 1941.

The third Tobruk line, or green line, according to the British, was the one built around the old forts of Perrone, Airente, Solaro, and Marcucci.
Neither the Italians nor the British were very successful with defending this line, and the forts were barely positions in the first place. The whole third line was honestly pretty useless.
The organization of the second, or blue, line also varies somewhat between the Italian and British plans. The British/Australians probably realized most of the old strongpoints weren't very useful and didn't defend them.

I recently did a small, shallow bit of research on the operations around Zara during World War II, which didn't amount to much. Both sides planned for operations but not much of scale.
The Yugoslav 12th "Jadranska" Infantry Division was scheduled to attack from its base at Knin (yes, that Knin) but failed to do anything. This allowed the Italians to advance from Zara and link up with others elements coming from Slovenia.
That was it. The rest of the Yugoslav Army had completed its disintegration by then and the 9000 men of the Zara garrison commanded by BG Emilio Gilioli achieved a complete success.

A while ago, I discovered an order of battle for the "di Bardi" task force that has no context behind it in the very unreliable Nafziger Collection. Let's try to make sense of it.
The unit is titled "Command Piazza di Bardi". This is very likely a mistranslation, as all my Italian sources call this organization the "Piazza di Bardia".
It's probably the predecessor to Schmitt's "Division Bardia", and in fact Montanari's "The Second British Offensive" indicates that Schmitt was in command of something in the area.
I think it's fair to put him in command, making this a German command with no German units. Moving on to the rest of the Nafziger document, let's look at the order of battle for this "task force" (it wasn't one).

Task Force HQ (probably not real)
    475th (German) Communications Platoon (probaby real but I couldn't find it, it's too small)

Piazza di Bardia Command:
    2nd Battalion, 15th "Savona" Infantry Regiment (4)
    2nd Battalion, 16th "Savona" Infantry Regiment (4)
    3rd Battalion, 40th "Bologna" Infantry Regiment (4)
        9th 20/35 AA Company
        10th 47/32 AT Company
        11th 81/14 Mortar Company
        12th Machine Gun Company
    4th Machine Gun Squadrons Group, "Genova Cavalleria" Regiment (1 Company Strength)
    HQ and 3 Mixed Companies from the 28th G.a.F. Coverage Sector (I finally know what this means)
    282nd Group, 280th G.a.F. Artillery Regiment (75/27)
    342nd Group, 340th G.a.F. Artillery Regiment (75/27)
    28th G.a.F. Mixed Engineer Detachment (1 Company Strength)

General Staff (Savona Division HQ)
    55th Post Office
    45th Medical Section
    68th Field Hospital
    69th Field Hospital
    55th Supply Section
    27th Bakery Section
    155th Mixed Truck Section

One benefit of this document, though, is that it has a clear order for one of the elusive AA/AT battalions at this time. Somewhat helpful, although way too late.
In a stroke of insane luck, I already got it right. It's just that my numbers are all one off, since they don't account for the AA company which my game often ignores out of convenience.

Also, I was wrong about the strength of the 3rd Battalion, 347th Infantry Regiment. A standard German rifle company in 1941 had 12 LMGs, 3 light mortars, and 3 anti-tank rifles.
A smaller variant of this rifle company, the type e, had 9 less men and just a single mortar with no anti-tank rifles.
The standard machine gun company had 12 HMGs and 6 mortars, with a variant, the type f, having the full 12 HMGs but no mortars, though it did save 52 men worth of manpower.
Depending on whether it used normal type c of everything or if it was using the variant types with weaker armament, here are the ranges for firepower of a single infantry battalion:
LMGs: 36
HMGs: 12
Mortars: 3-15
Anti-Tank Rifles: 0-9
The 3rd Battalion, 347th Infantry Regiment had the following strength:
LMGs: 45 (Some Captured)
HMGs: 12
Mortars: 12
Anti-Tank Rifles: 18
So, it's strenght was around normal or even above standard in all respects. It perhaps could be given a sort of "buffed" status as early as Crusader, but at the same time its parent Division was lacking in support.
For all the company-level and battalion-level firepower they could leverage, communications were poor, the engineers were Italians subbing in for the 2nd Company/39th Engineer Battalion which was in Bardia, and there wasn't any artillery.
As a siege formation working in tandem with Italian units and corps-level forces (not represented in my game), it's not bad, but were it and the rest of its division to fight a battle on their own it would be completely over.

I started doing this at some point and it's really confusing. Ad'A is an abbreviation for "Armi d'Accompagnamento" or support/heavy weapons.

We've tracked artillery, we've tracked mortars, we've tracked personnel. I wanted to track machine guns next, but I'm sure the splitting up of the 61st Machine Gun Battalion will greatly complicate things.
Expected Count:
48 HMGs from the 2 infantry regiments (8 for each battalion's Ad'A company)
40 HMGs from the artillery regiment (2 per battery) (I don't know how this works for the corps units, but I'll ignore these anyway)
36 HMGs from the MG battalion
10 HMGs from the 2 bersaglieri motorcycle companies
18 HMGs from the 2 replacement battalions
Infantry-adjacent total: 102
Total: 152
The specific model of HMG is the Fiat-Revelli Model.35, or just the Fiat 35
Other smaller machine guns varied in caliber and build, and the calibers that Montanari gives don't match up with models I could find, so we won't worry about them

Anyway, here's the counts Montanari gives:
18 reinforcing the MG battalion (the MG battalion itself had 2 companies) (probably from 2 of the Ad'A companies, perhaps 4/70 and 12/70)
Ras Beiad: 8 (probably from an Ad'A company, likely 8/69)
Actually, this is probably the Ad'A company from the 64th Replacement Battalion
3rd Battalion, 69th Infantry Regiment: 8 (probably from a spare Ad'A company or its organic company, i'd prefer 12/69)
Pilastrino: 8 (same, likely from 8/70)
Actually, these were probably from 12/70, since that's... exactly what Montanari says in his book. He doesn't mince any words about it.
Gabr el Abd: 8 (same, likely from 1/61MG)
Actually, this is probably the Ad'A company from the 61st Replacement Battalion
Point. 71: 8 (same, likely from 1/61MG)
(Not much option left, so I'm giving these to 8/69)
Mobile Reserve: 2 platoons = 8 (same, likely from 4/69)
We have 5 of what are almost certianly Ad'A companies. So that tells us where most of them went. The rest is a little wishy-washy but the numbers don't seem completely off.
The missing machine guns are probably where Montanari puts many of them - inside the defense pits. I can't come up with any numbers, so here the train of thought ends.
Those are probably all from the MG battalion, though, so those could probably be subtracted from the calculations.
What I can say confidently, though, is that while the Ad'A companies of many of these infantry battalions are not placed anywhere on Montanari's map, I am nearly certain that they were still within the Tobruk Fortress.

Niehorster's site lacks an OOB for the 1941 AS Autotransportable Division, a mostly-transient structure that was rendered impossible by the severity of losses during Crusader.
Here it is:
Divisional HQ, divisional services, and motorized transport
2 Infantry Regiments, each:
    2 Infantry Battalions, each:
        3 Rifle Companies
        1 Support Weapons Company
    1 Support Weapons Battalion, with:
        1 20/35 AA Company
        1 47/32 Anti-Tank Company
        1 81/14 Mortar Company
        1 Machine Gun Company
    (No infantry guns, as they all were lost during Compass)
Artillery Regiment, with:
    1 Group 100/17
    2 Groups 75/27
    1 Mixed Anti-Aircraft Group
Division Support Weapons Battalion (Same structure, but without the 20/35 company)
Mixed Engineer Battalion

German reconaissance units did come to the support of the Savona Division's HQ at Bir Ghirba, according to Montanari.
For me, that gives another excuse to keep the 580th Reconaissance Company near the frontier even though it wasn't there in reality.

Also, Montanari's book on Crusader gives some orders of battle that shine light on the mixed and severely cursed state of many axis units in the preparatory stages of the battle.
In fact, his orders of battle are the origin for Nafziger's "di Bardi" task force. What a mess. An order of battle for this German unit became corrupted to a nearly unrecognizable name.
And yes, there are still no German units in the division except for the communications platoon. But Montanari does add something we didn't have before: information about Bardia's defense.
Regia Marina Garrison: 1 120/45 battery, 1 76/40 battery, 2 13mm machine guns
Regio Esercito Garrison: 1 105/28 battery, a single 75/27 gun with a G.a.F crew
3 mixed detachments with assorted recovered and captured weapons, and the infantry of the 3 battalions present and the Genova Cavalleria squadrons group

It's worth noting that Montanari refers to the heavy companies of German units as "compagnia d'arresto" which may be relatted to the "compagnia combattimenti d'arresto" we've seen previously.
The rest of what he has aren't groundbreaking. Here are the takeaways:
The Brescia Division had the normal 2 infantry gun companies, and as previously known they had been taken from 2 divisions in metropolitan Italy. It also had a cadre of a divisional motorcycle company (not bersaglieri).
Funny that the Italian word for radio operators is "marconisti". They truly are proud of their (fascist) countryman.
155th Artillery Regiment had two normal 105mm howitzer groups and 1 mixed group with 1 100mm gun battery and 2 105mm howitzer batteries.
Meanwhile, the 33rd Artillery Regiment was entirely normal with 2 105mm howitzer groups and a 155mm howitzer group (abteilungen in German).
On November 1, the 361st Infantry Regiment wasn't assigned to the Divison z.b.V. "Afrika". That, or Montanari just missed it.
The Trieste Division's formation on November 1 shows only the 65th and not the 66th Infantry Regiment with a 3rd support weapons battalion.
Also, its Bersaglieri battalions (all 3 non-support ones), formerly with just 2 motorized companies or 3 motorcycle companies, had begun receiving or reorganizing into a 3rd support weapons company.
The Bersaglieri support weapons battalion also had the exact same structure as those of the regular infantry regiments, with four companies.

There are no more axis orders of battle other than this one, though there are some mentions of British dispositions in the documents attached to the book, and a full OOB for them later.

So... I might have screwed up ever single replacement unit. I still have to this date not found any proof that any of them had four companies. Here's what I have:
The 55th Replacement Battalion had 2 companies, but both were in Naples anyway.
A random Alpini Replacement Battalion, the 7th, had 3 companies with high ordinal numbers.
An Alpini Replacement Regiment during the campaign in the Soviet Union had an unknown number of companies, but did have a support weapons company.
Some replacement unit that I can't identify had 4 total companies, three rifle and one support weapons, just like a regular infantry battalion.
It seems to me that when in doubt, I should go with the replacement battalion having the same strength as a regular battalion of the same type, so 4 companies for infantry and 3 for alpini (except +1 for the ARMIR).
The Savona's case is probably an anomaly and that order of battle is on the suspicious side anyway. Perhaps the replacement battalion, as it wasn't overseas yet, wasn't yet fully established.

Some say replacement battalions were meant to handle replacement companies. They themselves never replaced anything and were chiefly administrative, and were also entirely permanent and stood in for depots (which were not overseas).
In contrast, march companies were formed at the replacement battalion from personnel sent from Italy. There, they would be trained and equipped in preparation to join the unit they were replacing.

The Savona Division appears to have a single infantry gun company with 5 guns during Crusader, at least according to a German Source. Other places indicate that its artillery regiment had two batteries of 65/17 after rebuilding.
I believe at least one of the batteries was numbered the 267th, which certainly was a replacement unit and probably hadn't come from any existing infantry regiment.
Apparently, some sources indicate a 266th battery as well, which would complete the set. I can't find any confirmation of its existence but I think it's not unreasonable to assume it did.

Previously, I had thought the 2nd Battalion, Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire Regiment was commanded by a Lt-Col. Eason. I had no proof of this but I had seen his name and rank somewhere and that was the best I could find.
I'd like to complian briefly that this was an awful experience to research. While it was a few months, British sources suck and it doesn't help that there's a similarly named Hertfordshire Regiment elsewhere.
The good news is that Rommel's Riposte has solved this problem by confirming the commanding officer was a Lt-Col. Hassell. Maybe this was the guy who later commanded 69th Infantry Brigade later, though his name is spelled different.
Also, this unit is not in the Crusader game, but the commander of the 3rd County of London Yeomanry was a Major Dickens. Major's a low rank, so maybe he only took command after the previous man became a casualty.

From tacticalorganization.com, there are a ton of documents that have so far seemed on the reliable side. These have now been reached on the reading list, so let's get to them. Things of note:
Off-topic, but between June 10 and July 1940, the East African Southern Zone formed a series of colonial divisions to handle its numerous independent brigades, numbered the 21st-24th.
The Eritrea HQ later did the same, forming the 1st, 2nd, and 4th Colonial Divisions, as well as some additional brigades from reserve elements.

The XXXI Libyan Coastal Battalion was formed by the mobilization center at Derna, the same as the XI Libyan Battalion, 7th AA Battery, 14th and 15th Static Machine Gun Companies, and 22nd/7th Artillery Battery.
While most of the Libyan Battalions had nicknames, mostly after places, I couldn't find any such name for the XXXI or the other coastal battalions. They are truly obscure.
Finally news about this unit's structure though: it had a 44 man hq with no weapons, and 3 companies of 151 men each, containing two rifle platoons and a machine gun platoon.
So I was at least right about the 3-company structure. But with a total strength of just 497 men, these were much, much weaker than a regular divisional battalion of 662 men.
But at least it's stronger than some blackshirt units, with their support weapons battalions sometimes having as few as 313 personnel.
Also, the 32nd-35th Libyan Battalions were all formed initially as coastal untis as well, probably, but were then reorganized into regular field battalions.

That said, while the Libyan Coastal Battalions were stronger than the blackshirt support battalions, they were weaker than blackshirt garrison battalions of 517 men (also with no weapons).
A slightly more mobile version of those garrison battalions with just 499 men but at least they had a few heavier machine guns (6) plus some SMGs.

About the Libyan Machine Gun companies, 19 existed. 13 were placed on the Tunisian border, while 14, 15, 18, and 19 were sent to Giarabub, and 16 was deployed to Kufra. 17's doesn't seem to have existed, for some reason.
There were also Static Libyan Machine Gun companies, 13 numbered 50-62. Most survived into 1942, except for 59 and 69 which were lost at Kufra. They had no fixed organization.
The "Croatian Legion" that appears in some returns for the Italian 8th Army was not the same one that went to Stalingrad. Instead it was a militia force formed by the Italians.

The "depot" legions such as the 140th Salerno one were called that because their active battalions were elsewhere (in this case North Africa), hence they were to act as depots and not as combat HQs.
So, a single field legion such as the 238th "Aurelio Padovani" with three battalions would have three depot legions back in Italy supporting it.
The "Assault" legions were the ones that were given to the army divisions, a change that occurred into October 1940, though it resulted in no actual combat difference.
The Roman size designations such as "Centuria" and "Coorte" were discontinued for most of the blackshirt field units, except for a minorly cursed Raggruppamento formed from the forestry militia.

The Bersaglieri Motorized Battalions with just 2 companies apiece had a rather small strength of just 463 men but made it for it in eliteness.
The motorcycle battalions were stronger with 731 men, while I have nothing on the strength of individual companies or the ones given to the Type AS Divisions.
The AS 1941 Bersaglieri organization that appeared during Crusader had 2 motorized battalions with 3 companies each (2 rifle and one heavy) along with a support weapons battalion (missing its anti-tank company) and motorcycle company.

While my mixed bersaglieri battalion was a bit of a cursed unit, a similar unit did exist. As part of the Babini Group, a motorcycle bersaglieri battalion was formed from the 10th and 60th companies.
It didn't have a number, as an ad-hoc headquarters, and was instead termed "provisional". Its organization is also in doubt as some say the 201st and 202nd companeis were with it as well.
A third motorcycle company, the 17th, was part of the Babini Group but was put under the command of the tanks rather than the bersaglieri headquarters. Neither was part of the 10th Bersaglieri Regiment (which hadn't shown up yet).
The 4th Tank Infantry Regiment headquarters had served as the basis for the Babini Group's 1st Tank Battle Group (probably termed a Raggruppamento) when it went to its destruction with its 1st Battalion.
And yes, the 20/65 battery that I KNOW THE REGIMENT HAD is listed but predictably without a number. It might be the 13th from the Savona Division that disappears but that disappearance may be a typo.
It's like this is some kind of intentional coverup operation. For none of these regiments with a 20/65 battery can I find the number. It's actually immensely miserable.

I genuinely don't think this could possibly be the case. There's no way a single number could be collectively forgotten by every source I have. The only answer... was that there was no number.
In fact, Leland Ness includes an OOB for the Babini Group with every single company-sized or larger unit numbered, except this one 20/65 battery. If it did have a number this would be a real travesty.

The Carabinieri Parachute Battalion was the third such battalion formed, as only after the two Libyan Battalions and it were formed were any metropolitan battalions formed.
This battalion was destroyed in its rearguard role in the days following Crusader, but the pieces of it that survived were able to rejoin the Folgore Division as a single company.

It's strange that Montanari at one point mentions that the 100/28 guns were "the best". On paper, in terms of range and firepower, maybe.
tacticalorganization.com's Leland Ness disagrees, arguing that its outdated design and poor mobility and versatility made it near use-less and necessary to replace with the more modern 105/40.
The sometimes-menationed 105/32 is not a mistake, but a rare redesigned Austro-Hungarian 104/32 field gun. I feel as if I've seen this gun somewhere but I don't remember where.
The 149/12 was also distinct from the 149/13 and was a German gun licensed by the Italians. It had absolutely abysmal range, worse than even the 149/13, so it's not surprising that the only one at Tobruk was for training.
The two models of CAR for North Africa were as follows:
Type 1 (2 100/17, 2 75/27): 20th CAR, 21st CAR
Type 2 (2 105/28, 1 100/17): 10th CAR, 22nd CAR
(These numbers weren't the ones used, I am just arbitrarily numbering them. More variants from Types A-G were used for metropolitan CARs).
The Type 1 was the original North African design that were formed prior to the war, while the Type 2 ones were later reinforcements sent directly from Italy.

A typical corps artillery group in europe had 546 personnel, while even with its support elements, those in Africa had a total of just 426 men handling its 12 guns.
Despite a pretty unimpressive record as commander of the Sabratha Division, though that wasn't completely his fault, Guido Della Bona survived to command XXVI Army Corps occupying Epirus.

I've also finally received information about the "reparto specialisti di artiglieria di corpo d'armata", or artillery specialist units. These were observation and target acquisition elements attached to each CAR (depot).
The strength of such a unit was 254 men, who served in, you guessed it, a series of specialized roles such topographics, sound ranging, or even meteorology.

Compared to the abysmal quality of most Italian artillery units, the 20/65 and 75/46, the anti-air guns at Tobruk, were both 30s designs that were high quality but couldn't be produced in quantity in time.
The XV Group of 75/46 which would be destroyed at Tobruk was in fact not originally deployed there but was instead shipped to Derna. That does put into doubt that it is the same one later mentioned at Cyrene, however.

Overall, it's a truly impressive amount of stuff that Ness has been able to collect. You can tell he actually went to the archives in Rome and NARA, which certainly means I won't need to do the same.
Still nothing on the replacement units, though. I'll have to read through his information on the infantry again, spend some more hours digging, and probably end up making my own judgement anyway.

The 3rd Battalion of the 20th "Brescia" Infantry Regiment was commanded during Crusader by a Major Bocchino and managed to survive some rearguard actions.
Knight of the 1st Battalion, Worcestershire Regiment had the full name "John Oldham Knight". His second in command was a Major Robert Tuckey.

More information on the deployment of the Savona Division. From west to east, its elements were as follows:
Cirener: 1/15
D'Avanzo: ?
Cova: 3/15, 13 Oasis, 257th GaF 65/17
Frongia (Omar Nuovo): 3/16, HQ + 2 MG Companies, 2 75/27 Batteries, 503rd 20/65 Battery, 1/18 FLAK
Sidi (Libyan) Omar: HQ 16 IR, 1/16, 3 MG Companies, 2 105/28 Batteries, 267th 65/17 Company, 12 Oasis
The 266th 65/17 Company was probably at Bardia, if at existed at all.
The cause of much confusion is that Sidi Omar on the Libyan side is called Libyan Omar by the British and Sidi Omar by the Axis.
Meanwhile, Sidi Omar on the Egyptian side is called Sidi Omar by the British and Omar Nuovo by the Italians. There were only two such Omars, not three like the names might suggest.
Faltembacher (subordinated to Schmitt): 6 Oasis

I've also found an older series of conversations from Comando Supremo. For some reason it seems the site was wiped and restarted later, so a lot was lost but is now archived in the waybackmachine.

The 10th AAR (not CAR) appears to have been originally deployed in France and was disbanded after the French campaign, reappearing in Tobruk on July 1940.

The anti-air battery of the artillery regiments often appears numbered in line with the regiment's batteries rather than in total, like using 10th/43rd for the Sirte Division's rather than 61st.
This took effect only in North Africa, however. Divisions that were used in Europe did not have this, and the North African divisions also began life without this change yet having been made.
By July, though, the battery appears to have been given away and replaced with the 77th battery, from the Pavia Division.
This is a bit of a shady thing, since no sources clearly indicate the number of this battery. My only source for this is page 219 of "History of the Artillery", by Carlo Montù.
Prior to becoming the 136th Regiment, the Giovani Fascisti seem to have been organized only as a Raggruppamento Battaglioni "Giovani Fascisti", so I severely backdated that one. My mistake.
The 9th Independent Infantry Battalion might have actually been a former G.a.F. unit and was under the command of a Major Gelli who would be killed in combat during the Tunisian Campaign.
It appears the number change that resulted in all G.a.F. artillery groups getting multiplied by 10 occurred in Spring 1941. Units lost during Compass were unaffected.

One source about 3rd Battalion, 255th Infantry Regiment and 3rd Battalion, 347th Infantry Regiment notes they were full of "older men and young recruits".
This is probably just referring to the fact that the divisions these battalions and regiments came from were formed in later deployment waves and thus used lower quality manpower, not an intentional weakening of these two battalions.
Prior to joining the 361st "Afrika" Infantry Regiment, the 361st "Afrika" Artillery Battalion had been the 1st Battalion, 190th Motorized Artillery Regiment.
The two heavy infantry gun companies, the 707th and 708th, landed in early 1942, the 708th in February and the 707th in April, and each was equipped with 6 self-propelled guns.

About the battle that resulted in Mickl's capture, he was enclosed in a pocket along with other elements of Kampfgruppe Böttcher, including the 361st "Afrika" Infantry Regiment.
Nearby, Belhamed was held by the 900th Pioneer Battalion and elements of the 9th Bersaglieri Regiment. 4th New Zealand Brigade with its 18th and 20th Battalions cleared that feature on the 25th-26th of November.
On the 28th, Mickl's pocket was finally overrun by the 44th Royal Tank Regiment of 1st Army Tank Brigade, resulting in the capture of 637 unwounded men including Mickl, most of whom later broke free with him.

There is a discussion on the Replacement Battalions, although even the experts and buffs there are really struggling to find much of value. But there's not entirely nothing to say about this.
Noted are replacement battalions for ever division in North Africa, and it seems that this was standard procedure. A special fortress replacement battalion also existed in Tripoli in 1941.
I used the Issuu reload tactic to read the organization tables of each division type from the book about the Italian army between the two world wars, but it didn't include the number of companies in each battalion.

I wanted a video by Kings and Generals about the Italian Invasion of Egypt. This video was pretty terrible, failing to understand which Italian weapons were outdated and which were honestly pretty good.
They also made some other mistakes about the status of units and their movements:
8:24 The 11th Hussars were a battalion-sized unit. The British army still used old regiment designations for some of its battalions. Same for the 7th Hussars at 8:37.
12:43 The Italian "motor-transportable" divisions like the 60th, 61st, 62nd, 63rd, and 64th were not actually motorized. The artillery and other heavy weapons were motorized, but most of the regular troops were on foot.
18:22 It's true that the Italian command had made significant mistakes, but encircling a much faster enemy in the desert was functionally impossible for an army that was almost entirely on foot. 

I'm gonna be honest, I think Regio Esercito's source book that claims the existence of 310th and 320th Artillery Regiments with new structures and groupings are just straight up wrong.
No proof exists that the reorganizations that would have resulted in these units existing occurred prior to their destruction in January, and if they were ordered to reorganize there was absolutely no chance that it was carried out.

Bonus information regarding the Romolo Gessi Battalion: it wasn't actually disbanded, just removed from the front. Rather than becoming a company, it split into 2 companies with one taking a different name.
Both were employed in rear area guard duties in Africa at least until 1943, with records showing that it in fact was reinforced rather than being consumed for reinforcements to Rommel.

I've found some more information about the labor battalions. Certainly the 8th, 9th, and 4th existed in various positions at times.
These battalions were army assets and were simply formed from random manpower. It had no combat ability and the personnel were considered unfit for service on the frontline.
Two raggruppamenti (named as if they contained copmanies, for some reason) were formed from these labor batatlions: the 1st with the 5th-7th battalions and the 2nd with 1st-4th battalions.
The 8th of Tobruk fame arrived in May 1940 along with the 9th. Nothing else is known of the things of value it did other than maybe some ineffective maintanance on the Tobruk defenses.

It's possible to find a mention to GaF replacement elements, which were roughly the size of a weak company or 80 men
One has been located for the X Coverage Sector and I think it makes sense for similar sectors to have their own. But this doesn't tell us much about army replacements or the GaF in Africa.

It seems that while machine gun companies often had irregular number of companies, the 4 numbered from the 60th-63rd fro the original XX and XXI Corps all had 3 companies in their structure.

I'm going to attempt to ascertain the personnel of the replacement battalion in the AS 1940 Type by just counting all of them. Here's the attempt:

From Montanari:
Total 10978 Men

From Ness:
Infantry Regiment:
    HQ: 134 Men
    Infantry Battalion:
        HQ: 115 Men
        Rifle Company: 156 Men
        Heavy Company: 181 Men
        Total: 764 Men
    Infantry Gun Battery: 113 Men
    Mortar Company: 199 Men
    Total: 2738 Men
x 2 = 5476 Men
Artillery Regiment:
    HQ: 113 Men
    Artillery Group:
        HQ: 84 Men
        Battery: 87 Men
        Total: 345 Men
    Anti-Aircraft Battery: 100 Men
    Service Battery: 55 Men
    Total: 1403 Men
Machine Gun Battalion:
    HQ: 58 Men
    MG Company: 200 Men
    Total: 658 Men
Anti-Tank Company: 134 Men
Total Listed: 7671 Men

Approximate:
Division HQ: 358 Men
Light Tank Battalion: 190 Men
Motorcycle Bersaglieri Company: 100 Men (Leser gives 133 Men)
Engineer Battalion: 527 Men
Services: 235 Men
Total Approximate: 1410 Men (1443 Men)

Total Exclusion: 9081 Men (9114 Men)

Left:
Replacement Battalion: 1897 Men?
That's much too high. Certainly many of the assorted units would've been expanded significantly between the 1939 and 1940 TOEs, but there's no clear information.
Let's try this again, starting with the AS 1941 design rather than the AS 1939 design that might have diverged more. Not going to do the math here, but the sum is:
Rest of the Division: 10208 Men
Infantry Battalion: 886 Men
Replacement Battalion: 770 Men
With this information, I think it's fair to say that the replacement battalion had a fairly standard 4-company structure, not one of the much weaker 3-company battalions which fielded 500-600 men apiece.
Also, 770 men is barely different from the infantry battalion standard of 764 men. It's safe to say that the difference is within the error bars and is negligible.
For that reason, I think I'm going to assume from now on that the structure of the replacement battalion was identical or nearly identical to that of a regular infantry battalion.

Also, if we assume that the rifle company strength was 156 men like that of a regular infantry battalion, we realize that when Montanari noted that 160 men were avilable to defend the port, I misinterpreted his statement.
Those 160 men were a company-strength force, but with 156 men in the 3rd Company, 62nd Replacement Battalion, the only reasonable solution is that the replacement were not counted in the 160.
Thus, the 160 men are exclusively from the 3 Carabinieri sections (~65 men each) and the two depots (116th Infantry Regiment, G.a.F. Tobruk Unified).
On the other hand, there's no reason to 100% believe that the Carabinieri sections were at full strength and entirely committed. The replacement company may also have been weak.
So there's still a way for the total to add up to 160 men even if both the replacements and the carabinieri are there, plus a couple extra loose men from the depots who likely contributed little.

The Sirte Division did NOT have the 61st Engineer (artieri) Company as this was part of the 24th "Pinerolo" Infantry Division in Greece. The actual number is unknown.
Below, I'll start tracking some of the engineer companies and see if I can find a gap that will represent the location of the companies of the North African divisions (60th-63rd).

Some more information on tracking which 2 120/25 batteries formed the 6th Group that Rostagno missed. I'm still leaning on 230bis and 231bis, but it's not certain.
I thought that maybe the solution would be to fill in the gaps in the existing numbers of 242, 244, 245, 246, 247, and 249, leaving 243 and 248.
However, a 248th Battery appears in Albania on 6 April, and then in Montenegro, and I don't think it would've been formed so quickly (just 2 months after Tobruk fell to form it).
The original 248th Battery is also a 77/28 battery and this timeline requires it to be retooled into a 120/25 battery, destroyed, and then reformed as a 149/12 battery in Albania.
Alternately, if the battery was disbanded sometime in late 1940, it would have several months to be reformed into a 149/12 battery and the personnel would be available for this change.
But maybe this matters not, as the 242nd and 243rd Batteries appear in the alps and then in Africa within 7 days of each other (June 1, 1940 - June 8, 1940), which must be impossible.
I can only guess that this means the transfer of batteries could in fact be very quick, or that the numbers in these two theaters had no need to be distinct from one another.

And like an idiot I forgot to just go back to the base source about all this. Montanari doesn't actually leave much ambiguity with the structures of these two battalions.
The LXI Replacement Battalion is noted as having 3 rifle companies and 1 support weapons company, split up between Point. 71 (2 rifle) and the strongpoint of Gabr el Abd (1 rifle, support weapons).
The LXIV Replacement Battalion is noted as having 2 rifle companies, with some additional elements (likely its other 2 companies) part of the coastal defense command.

Other than its two battalions, each formed from 3 rifle companies, the Giovani Fascisti battalion regrouping also had a machine gun company and platoons of infantry guns and mortars.
This machine gun company, however, appears to have been disbanded with the wider AS 42 decentralizations of weapons and was gone by the 24th of May 1942, in time for Gazala.

Just reading through stuff, I found some more information about the positioning of German and Italian defensive positions during Battleaxe.
At Qalala, other than the 6th Oasis Company, there was one battery of Italian guns from the 1st Group, 2nd Fast Artillery Regiment.

It's known the 1st Battalion, Royal Northumberland Fusiliers, a machine gun battalion, definitely took part in the attack on Tobruk. Whether the 1st Battalion, Chester Regiment did the same is unknown.

And with that, we have found all the information about the units that I need. It is time to construct a final order of battle for the British Capture of Tobruk so that this problem is never anybody else's.
All the numbers have finally been found. There is no more confusion. Everything is done. And what a satisfying journey it has been, despite all the misery!

But for the units I haven't kept track of, maybe there's a bit of value in attempting to bring more information to the collective world.
For that reason, I'll do a bit of work in tracking the companies of artieri (builders) who unlike the companies of signals didn't share the number of their mixed engineer battalions.
Format: [Artieri] Company: [Division] ([Regiments])

[1]
2nd Company: 13th "Re" Infantry Division (1, 2, 23) (Poor Source)
[3]
6th Company: 205th Coastal Division (127, 128, 129) (Poor Source)
7th Company: 29th "Piemonte" Infantry Division (3, 4, 24) (Likely Typo)
[1]
9th Company: 10th "Piave" Auto-Transportable Division (57, 58, 20) (Poor Source)
10th Company: 30th "Sabauda" Infantry Division (45, 46, 16)
11th Company: 48th "Taro" Infantry Division (207, 208, 48)
[1]
13th Company: 31st "Calabria" Infantry Division (59, 60, 31)
14th Company: 1st "Superga" Infantry Division (91, 92, 5)
15th Company: 59th "Cagliari" Infantry Division (63, 64 59)
16th Company: 2nd "Sforzesca" Infantry Division (53, 54, 17)
[1]
18th Company: 3rd "Ravenna" Infantry Division (37, 38, 11)
19th Company: 37th "Modena" Infantry Division (41, 42, 29)
20th Company: 4th "Livorno" Infantry Division (33, 34, 28)
[1]
22nd Company: 28th "Aosta" Infantry Division (5, 6, 22) (Poor Source)
23rd Company: 5th "Cosseria" Infantry Division (89, 90, 37)
24th Company: 6th "Cuneo" Infantry Division (7, 8, 27)
25th Company: 58th "Legnano" Infantry Division (67, 68, 58)
26th Company: 7th "Lupi di Toscana" Infantry Division (77, 78, 30)
27th Company: 60th "Sabratha" Infantry Division (85, 86, 42) (Poor Source)
28th Company: 102nd "Trieste" Motorized Division (65, 66, 9, 21)
29th Company: 44th "Cremona" Infantry Division (21, 22, 7) (Poor Source, 1943 on Only)
30th Company: 9th "Pasubio" Auto-Transportable Division (79, 80, 8)
31st Company: 33rd "Acqui" Infantry Division (17, 18, 33)
32nd Company: 11th "Brennero" Infantry Division (231, 232, 9)
33rd Company: ARMIR (Poor Source)
34th Company: 12th "Sassari" Infantry Division (151, 152, 34)
[1]
36th Company: 15th "Bergamo" Infantry Division (25, 26, 4)
37th Company: 57th "Lombardia" Infantry Division (73, 74, 57)
38th Company: 13th "Re" Infantry Division (1, 2, 23)
39th Company: 32nd "Marche" Infantry Division (55, 56, 32)
40th Company: 14th "Isonzo" Infantry Division (23, 24, 6)
[1]
42nd Company: 10th "Piave" Auto-Transportable Division (57, 58, 20)
43rd Company: 38th "Puglie" Infantry Division (71, 72, 25)
44th Company: 16th "Pistoia" Infantry Division (35, 36, 3)
[1]
46th Company: 17th "Pavia" Type AS Division (11, 12, 56)
47th Company: 56th "Casale" Infantry Division (11, 12, 56)
48th Company: 18th "Messina" Infantry Division (93, 94, 2)
49th Company: 49th "Parma" Infantry Division (49, 50, 49)
[1]
51st Company: 102nd "Trento" Motorized Division (61, 62, 7, 46)
52nd Company: 20th "Friuli" Infantry Division (87, 88, 35)
53rd Company: 41st "Firenze" Infantry Division (127, 128, 41)
54th Company: 21st "Granatieri di Sardegna" Infantry Division (1G, 2G, 13)
55th Company: 47th "Bari" Infantry Division (139, 140, 47)
56th Company: 22nd "Cacciatori delle Alpi" Infantry Division (51, 52, 1)
57th Company: 52nd "Torino" Infantry Division (81, 82, 52)
58th Company: 23rd "Ferrara" Infantry Division (47, 48, 14)
[1]
60th Company: 65th "Granatieri di Savoia" Infantry Division (10G, 11G, 60)
61st Company: 24th "Pinerolo" Infantry Division (13, 14, 18)
62nd Company: 25th "Bologna" Infantry Division (39, 40, 10) (Later Transferred to 136th "Giovani Fascisti" Armored Division (136, 8, 136)) (Poor Source)
[1]
64th Company: 26th "Assietta" Infantry Division (29, 30, 25)
[1]
66th Company: 36th "Forli" Infantry Division (43, 44, 36)
[1]
68th Company: 28th "Aosta" Infantry Division (5, 6, 22)
[1]
70th Company: 29th "Piemonte" Infantry Division (3, 4, 24)
71st Company: 54th "Napoli" Infantry Division (75, 76, 54)
[4, Possible]
76th Company: 19th "Venezia" Infantry Division (83, 84, 19)
77th Company: 44th "Cremona" Infantry Division (21, 22, 7)
78th Company: 103rd "Piacenza" Auto-Transportable Division (111, 112, 37)
79th Company: 104th "Mantova" Auto-Transportable Division (113, 114, 11)
80th Company: 105th "Rovigo" Auto-Transportable Division (227, 228, 117)
[1]
82nd Company: 27th "Brescia" Type AS Division (27, 28, 26)
83rd Company: 51st "Siena" Infantry Division (31, 32, 51)
[5, Unlikely]
89th Company: 131st "Centauro" Armored Division (31, 5, 131) (Poor Source)
90th Company: XX Army Corps (Montanari, "The Second Italo-German Counteroffensive", Page 370)
91st Company: 50th "Regina" Infantry Division (9, 10, 50)
[2]
94th Company: 53rd "Arezzo" Infantry Division (225, 226, 53)
[6, Unlikely]
101st Company: 1st "Eugenio di Savoia" Cavalry Division (12, 14, 11, 1) (Later Transferred to 6th "Alpi Graie" Alpine Division (3AG, 4AG, 6A))
102nd Company: 2nd "Emanuele Filiberto Testa di Ferro" Cavalry Division (1, 2, 1, 2->134) (Later Transferred to 80th "La Spezia" Air-Transportable Division (125, 126, 80))
[1]
104th Company: 4th "Cuneense" Alpine Division (1A, 2A, 4A) (Poor Source)
105th Company: 3rd "Amedeo Duca d'Aosta" Cavalry Division (3, 5, 3, 3->120)
[15, Unlikely]
121st Company: 1st "Taurinense" Alpine Division (3A, 4A, 1A)
122nd Company: 2nd "Tridentina" Alpine Division (5A, 6A, 2A)
123rd Company: 3rd "Julia" Alpine Division (8A, 9A, 3A)
124th Company: 4th "Cuneense" Alpine Division (1A, 2A, 4A)
125th Company: 5th "Pusteria" Alpine Division (7A, 11A, 5A)
[1]
127th Company: 55th "Savona" Type AS Division (15, 16, 12) (Poor Source)
[2]
130th Company: 2nd CC.NN. Division "28 Ottobre" (231, 238, 202)
131st Company: 131st "Centauro" Armored Division (31, 5, 131)
132nd Company: 132nd "Ariete" Armored Division (32, 8, 132)
[1]
134th Company: 132nd "Ariete" Armored Division (32, 8, 132) (Poor Source)
[6, Unlikely]
141st Company: 41st "Marche" Infantry Division (127, 128, 41) (Decent Source)
[9, Unlikely]
151st Company: 151st "Perugia" Garrison Division (129, 130, 151)
152nd Company: 152nd "Piceno" Garrison Division (235, 236, 336)
153rd Company: 153rd "Macerata" Garrison Division (121, 122, 153)
154th Company: 154th "Murge" Garrison Division (259, 260, 311)
155th Company: 155th "Emilia" Garrison Division (119, 120, 155)
156th Company: 156th "Vicenza" Garrison Division (277, 278, 156)
157th Company: 157th "Novara" Garrison Division (153, 154, 157)
158th Company: 158th "Zara" Garrison Division (291, 292, 158)
159th Company: 159th "Veneto" Garrison Division (255, 256, 159)
[1]
161st Company: 102nd "Trento" Motorized Division (61, 62, 7, 46)
[22, Unlikely]
184th Company: 184th "Nembo" Parachute Division (183, 184, 185, 184)
185th Company: 185th "Folgore" Parachute Division (186, 187, 185)
[64, Unlikely]
201st Company: Formed by the 15th Engineer Regiment, probably for the 1st "23 Marzo" CC.NN. Division
[48, Unlikely]
250th Company: 50th "Regina" Infantry Division (9, 10, 50) (Decent Source)
[Any, Unlikely]

Not Included:
40th "Cacciatori d'Africa" Infantry Division (African Engineer Company)
Artieri Battalions - they had their own internal companies
Blackshirt Divisions - unknown, if I were to guess they were numbered 200+
For example the 4th Artieri Battalion had 1st, 2nd, and 3rd Companies, and the 15th Artieri Battalion had the 1st, 2nd, and 104th Companies. The Alpini Corps also had its own specialized battalion.

This is for the companies only, which were assigned to the divisions. Each (most) corps had a raggruppamento of engineers including a battalion of artieri.

The commander of the 3rd Company, 28th "Pavia" Infantry Regiment was a Francesco Coco. He was killed during the siege of Tobruk on 30 November 1941.
The commander of the 203rd Artillery Regiment which was part of the 64th "Catanzaro" Infantry Division was an Ermenegildo Farfaneti, killed on 11 December 1940.
The commander of an unknown group of the 44th "Marmarica" Artillery Regiment was a Giuseppe Ghione, killed on an unknown day in January 1940.
The commander of the 1st Medium (M11/39) Tank Company, 4th Tank Infantry Regiment was a Giuseppe Locatelli, killed on 19 November 1940.
(I thought this wouldn't be relevant, but I remembered that many of the base maps, including Operation Compass, are out of date, so that's no longer the case.)
The chief of staff of Bergonzoli's XXIII Army Corps was a Achille Meneghini, killed on an unknown day in January 1940.
The commander of the 157th Infantry Regiment, 63rd "Cirene" Infantry Division was a Alfredo Marone. He survived the war.
The commander of one group of 105/28 guns in the 24th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento was a Giuseppe Pasquali. He died on 26 December 1941.
The commander of the 3rd Battalion, 157th "Cirene" Infantry Regiment was a Michele Purrello. He was killed on 3 January 1941.
Three members of the 61st Light Tank Battalion (for the 61st "Sirte" Infantry Division but ended up with the Babini Group) were Adelio Ponce de Leon, Aldo Bruni, and Claudio d'Amico.

The VIII Battaglione Lavoratori, or 8th Labor Battalion, was initially subordinated to the XX Army Corps Engineer Raggruppamento. Its commander was Vincenzo Fusco, who was killed 9 Decmeber 1940.
Rostagno notes that this battalion was in Tobruk. If it was, it was certainly not at full strength and didn't have its original commander with it. I don't know much about its actions in either battle.
One company was noted as located at Capuzzo. Given the fates of other units that ended up in that area I wouldn't be surprised if this company was destroyed and little left of the battalion made it to Tobruk.

About the mixed engineer battalions in North Africa, I don't have all that much information, but I believe these are the most likely realities:
60th "Sabratha" Infantry Division: 72nd Engineer Company, Mobilized by the 20th Engineer Regiment
61st "Sirte" Infantry Division: 73rd Engineer Company, Mobilized by the 20th Engineer Regiment
62nd "Marmarica" Infantry Division: 74th Engineer Company, Mobilized by the 21st Engineer Regiment
63rd "Cirene" Infantry Division: 75th Engineer Company, Mobilized by the 21st Engineer Regiment
64th "Catanzaro" Infantry Division: Former blackshirt engineer company
(This has since been discredited)

The official Italian General Staff Historical Office book about the engineers adds a bit more but doesn't include concrete numbers. But here's what it includes:
The LXI Mixed Engineer Battalion was initially formed in Bir Ghinea and then transferred to Misurata by 30 April 1938. Until its formation, the Sirte Division had no engineer units.
Still no detail about the component elements of the LXI Mixed Engineer Battalion, but I stand by my number of 73 for the artieri company and the normal 61 for the signals company.

Another big mistake by me that I should probably own up to here: I mistranslated "reparto" as "detachment" many times. That's not what it means. It just means "unit". Like, any unit.
Also, "aliquota", while the translation is kinda screwy, just means "part" or "portion". It can also be abbreviated "aliq.", meaning that a unit is incomplete in its deployment.

Of the 6th Australian Division's 3 field regiments (2/1st, 2/2nd, and 2/3rd), only the first 2 were available at Bardia but the 2/3rd managed to join the division at Tobruk.
Among the 3 Infantry Brigades of the Division, there was a total of just 11 anti-tank guns, the strength of a single battery from an anti-tank regiment. (The actual 2/1st Anti-Tank Regiment had not arrived.)

The structure of the 7th Support Group isn't detailed to the smallest subunit in any of my sources, but we can learn a bit from the similar 1st Support Group of 1st Armoured Division, on September 1939.
The unit's headquarters was termed a battery rather than a company. The 1st Support Group's infantrymen were the 1st Rifle Brigade and 2nd King's Royal Rifle Corps, each with 4 motorized companies.
Its two field regiments, the 1st and 2nd RHA, had 2 batteries of 2 troops of 4 guns apiece. Each battery also had 6 anti-aircraft machine guns and 4 light anti-tank rifles.
The engineer component consisted of little: just a single engineer company and field park troop (platoon level). The Commander, Royal Engineers was also subordinated to the Support Group for some reason.
Worst of all, the divisional headquarters had a divisional signals "battalion" but it consisted of just a single company, the 1st Company, Royal Corps of Signals.

By the May 1940 reforms, most of the idiosynchracies of the above establishment had been fixed. The engineers were no longer part of the support group.
The signals unit had been expanded massively. Each of the two armored brigades got its own company, unlikely the single one split among all brigades of an infantry division. The total thus came to 4 companies.
Honestly this was a rare moment of insight in the organization of British Armoured Divisions during this period of the war. They at least understood the value of good communications.

I also read the original text of Playfair's "The Mediterranean and Middle East: Volume 1" but in all honesty he adds very little. Few orders of battle and unit details are included.

The 1st Battalion, South Staffordshire Regiment had the most miniscule possible role to play in the North African Campaign.
Just the A Comapny of this battalion joined Selby Force and struck Sidi Barrani. Afterward, the battalion just escorted prisoners and did rear-line duties until being sent to India, leaving the theater.
The 67th (Suffolk) and 68th (4th West Lancashire) Medium Regiments, Royal Artillery were both sent to reinforce Klopper's force defending Tobruk and both were captured in the subsequent defeat.

3rd Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery had its P and J companies detached to 4th Indian Division in October 1940. I don't know if the batteries were eventually returned but it seems unlikely that they left for East Africa.

The 2nd Battalion, Rifle Brigade was a unique battalion that followed an axis-style structure with a heavy company (in British terminology, this was called the "S" company).
It seems that some regiments and their battalions decided to conduct this reform at some point and that it wasn't followed by most of the army which stuck with companies A-D. All of them also had companies lettered HQ.

According to Montanari, only a portion of the G.a.F. personnel and anti-tank guns were committed to the first line of the Eastern Sector. I'm going to not worry about this, though, as I can't track it.
Instead, the four rifle companies attached to the sector's frontline will be the interval troops. And yes, they are necessary, as the 500 meter intervals were seriously in need of defense.
I was thinking that this might mean the strength of the G.a.F. in this sector was less than 6 companies, maybe because of Rostagno's report claiming that it was down 2 strongpoitns, but there's no justification.
If this did happen, I would have to find where these personnel went, and there's nowhere. We know only about 4 companies of strength were sent to the frontier and that was it in terms of drawdowns.
Those 1000 men were never followed by another force. So there's no chance for the defense of Tobruk to decrease even further.

Out of interest, I've attempted to transcribe the order of battle for Ras el Dai, a position held by Pescatori's 2nd Libyan Division:
2nd "Orfella" Libyan Battalion, 16th "Azizia" Libyan Battalion, 2 77/28 Batteries (divisional), 1 105/28 Battery (from II/21st CAR), 1 20/65 Battery with 6 Guns, 1 47/32 Company With 6 Guns

I think by now there's no more appetite for changes to the G.a.F. infantry, so let's just recap everything and make sure it's all consistent and going well.
There were initially 3300 personnel, 1500 in the XXXI sector and 1800 in the XXXII sector. Each had 6 strongpoitns, so the XXXI sector had 250 each and the XXXII sector had 300 each.
Montanari notes 3 positions were reconstituted, each with a "heavily reinforced company". It's like the same happened to Giarabub, resulting in a fourth company.
These personnel replaced the troops of the 150th Blackshirt Battalion which were tied down acting as the garrison, freeing them up to get destroyed deeper into Egypt.
These 4 companies were taken evenly, with two taken from the XXXI sector and two from the XXXII sector. This decreased the strength of the Tobruk garrison by 1000 men.
With all of these changes, the XXXII sector's command had been moved forward to handle the reconstituting troops, or had been disbanded entirely, leaving behind its four strongpoints.
At this point, Rostagno made his report. He noted that two strongpoints had been taken from the XXXI sector but lacked any information on the composition of the XXII sector.

When the 2nd "Volontari della Libia" Blackshirt Battalion arrived, it was slotted into subsector C/E. The existing two companies/strongpoints of G.a.F. there were sent to subsector A.
This resulted in a final defense of six strongpoints for subsector XXXI/A, two for subsector XXXI/B, and two loose remnant strongpoints that were probably directly subordinate to the XXXI sector.
While this doesn't align with Rostagno's report as changes had been made, it's safe to assume that Pitassi Mannella made the above changes, as they certainly do improve the defense dispositions.
Montanari also doesn't give anything of value regarding the "Volontari della Libia" battalion and in fact manages to show it with just one company. I'm gonna disagree on that one. Unless...

I suspect from the cursed counting that the naval battery "Vittoria", armed with three 76/40 (misspelled by Montaari as 76/30) guns, was actually detached from one of the existing naval batteries.
I have no other idea where its origin would be. There's no ship "Vittoria" that went anywhere near Tobruk and there's no record anywhere else of such a battery.

I'm going to put together a sort of cursed mixed battery to deal with the loose anti-tank gun elements that were lying around the fortress.
This battery is composed of the 2 149/35s of the "Buffolotto" section, 1 76/40 found in the naval stores, and 1 47/32 from the G.a.F., totaling 4 disparate guns.
Since the only named element in its composition is the "Buffolotto" section, I'm going to use that name for the mixed battery in total.
Also, the term Montanari uses to refer to the Tobruk reserve is "Unità Celere", or "Rapid Unit". This unit was split into two halves, each of which was roughly a battalion in size. The state of its headquarters is unknown.

Admiral Vietina's command isn't exactly clear and I lack an Italian name for it, but the one Niehorster gives for the local area is "Tobruk Coastal Sector" or "Settore Costiero di Tobruch" (translated by me).
I was able to find some additional information about him. In February 1937 he was the commander of the Cruiser "Eugenio di Savoia". He died according to this information in 1967.

A loose signal company is listed alongside the various units of the Babini group (many tanks and artillery, Bersaglieri battalion, 2 random machine guns lying around).
The 55th Signal Company is never mentioned anywhere else in the book except in Rostagno's document. I think it's then reasonable to say that this is where the company was at previously.

While the headquarters company of the 140th Blackshirt Battalion was at Tobruk, one rifle company and the support weapons company were at Bardia where they were destroyed.
In his sketches, Montanari even shows the position of the battalion as equivalent to the others, though we know that it was only a half-sized detachment there.

There's a cursed possible interpretation of what Montanari gives in his sketch 18 on Tobruk. He shows only a single company from the "Volontari della Libia" battalion at the Ras es Sehel strongpoint.
If this is to be taken at face value (which I certainly don't), this implies that the XXXII Coverage Sector maintained all four of its strongpoints in the west and none were sent to the east.
Also, this seems a little cooked, since Montanari refers to the XXXI Coverage Sector as "reinforced" first, then "reinforced with four companies" implying it was reinforced first with personnel from the XXII Coverage Sector.
He also does give subsector lengths which I think are to be believed. He gives 12km for A, 8km for B, 8km for C, 12km for D, 8km for E.

John Muirhead is typically known as the commander of the 4th Anti-Aircraft Brigade thanks to the unreliable Australian sources. But he wasn't always in command.
Until September, this brigade was commanded by a different brigadier, J. Slater. I really do think that Australian sources regarding the North African Campaign tend to be poor quality.

Immediately after Sonnenblume, when attacks against Tobruk were underway, Gott's force, then called the "Mobile Force" (no translation, duh), consisted of the following elements:
22nd Guards Brigade Group (1st DLI, 2nd SG, 3rd CG, 4th RTR)
4 Jock Columns (1 Battery + 1 Company Each)
1 Company of the Free French Motor Battalion (Playfair doesn't identify which one or what the battalion was)

Upon being trapped in Tobruk, the 3rd Armoured Brigade had the following composition:
1 Regiment of Armoured Cars, 1 Composite Light Tank Regiment, 1 Composite Cruiser Tank Regiment, 1 Infantry Tank Troop
Playfair also includes an OOB for Gott's forces during Brevity, but all it adds is that 2nd RTR and 4th each had a strength of 2 squadrons.
I also found a page that includes the full list of embarkations for the 6th Australian Division. This would be useful if it included any combat record whatsoever.

The 7th Motor Brigade was reformed from the 7th Support Group on 9 February 1942. Most of its artillery elements had been taken away the day before to be given to other units.

It's worth saying that I have no idea how the 1st Medium Tank Battalion summoned tanks from nowhere, as on 21 September, they only had 9 mobile and 23 immobile tanks.
Some tanks must have arrived in Tobruk to reinforce them, then, as they would soon have as many as 39 total tanks. Either these were from the 2nd Medium Tank Battalion or they were entirely new.
I'm leaning more to the second. It makes sense for the 32 existing tanks to be mostly intact but ineffective while the 7 extra tanks were brought in from elsewhere, likely in a fresh shipment from Italy.

Even now I still struggle to find an adequate translation for the word "autotransportabile". After all, auto-transportable isn't a term most English speakers were readily recognize.
"Truck-movable" is what Niehorster uses, but I think it's not clear. While the unit could be moved with trucks, it often lacked much organic transport to a crippling degree.
I prefer "semi-motorized". While this is vague, it's at least true, as parts of the division were motorized and others weren't. But it does somewhat give the illusion that motorization was even, which was no true.
"Partially-motorized" has the same problem and "mixed motorization" sounds awful to the ears. There's not really a good option I can think of so far.

Niehorster shows two strange CC.NN. units in Turin. These are neither legions nor are they independent cohorts, but rather, entirely unique units.
The first is the "Lavoratori Fiat", composed of Fiat factory workers. The second is the Coorte Autnoma Mutilati, composed of soldiers wounded in WW1.
It's a shame neither of these were formed in different versions elsewhere or saw any combat. Such unique units, entirely wasted by history.

Montanari claims that the 4th Tank Infantry Reigment was reinforced with "long-range and curved-range support weapons". In all honestly I have no idea what these are.
In his other book a bit of clarification is added but doesn't justify the previous statement. All it includes in the set are 4 81/14 mortars and 12 MGs.
Actually, when I wrote this I must've sounded pretty stupid. It's pretty apparent that the mortars in question fit this description of long-range and curved-fire weapons (all heavy weapons are "support" to the Italians).

Also, the "Buffolotto" section was entirely a G.a.F. unit. Going back to read through, I couldn't find a single mention of this unit having any actual naval identity.
But it gets worse. The later book changes its name to "Buffolotti". And neither of these is an actual word in Italian. I'm not joking, they both translate to nothing.
I think that this is ultimately a pluralization (of a nonexistent word, though) and thus it makes more sense in light of other battery names to use to singular "Buffolotto".
At the very least, though, its composition is not in doubt. It was a section (in my game upgraded to mixed battery) with 2 149/35 guns. A platoon, or firing battery, consisted of two of these (4 guns).
That was the attacking portion of a battery (company-sized unit). The other elements of the battery other than the platoon/firing battery were all support components.

After many changes, I think it's time to release my updated version of the previous OOB.

22nd Army Corps (Enrico Pitassi Mannella)

61st Infantry Division "Sirte" (Vincenzo Della Mura)
-69th Infantry Regiment
--3 Battalions with 4 companies each, plus one infantry gun battery
-70th Infantry Regiment (same as 69th)
-43rd Artillery Regiment
--1st Group (100/17)
--2nd Group (75/27)
--3rd Group (75/27)
--77th Anti-Aircraft Battery, 26th Artillery Regiment "Pavia"
-61st Mixed Engineer Battalion (2 companies)
-61st Machine Gun Battalion (3 companies)
-61st Replacement Battalion (4 companies)
-61st Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company
-61st Mortar Company (6 81/14)
-61st Anti-Tank Battery (8 47/32)

4th Tank Infantry Regiment
-1st Medium Tank Battalion (7 Mobile and 32 Immobile M11/39)
-63rd Light Tank Battalion (32 Immobile L3/35)
--21st Light Tank Battalion (Gave its tanks to the 63rd and sent to Benghazi)
-Anti-Aircraft Battery (Number Unknown)

10th Army Corps Artillery Raggruppamento
-7th Group (100/17)
-17th Group (105/28)

22nd Army Corps Artillery Raggruppamento
-1st Group (100/17)
-Mixed Battery (105/28)
--This battery, along with 2 batteries of 105/28 and one of 75/27, was formed into a composite group
-13th Anti-Aircraft Battery
-Provisional Anti-Tank Battery (6 47/32)
-10th Artillery Specialist Detachment

25th Army Corps Artillery Raggruppamento
-105th Group (149/13)
-130th Group (149/13)
-148th Group (149/13)
-150th Group (149/13)

55th Artillery Regiment "Brescia"
-1st Group (100/17)
-2nd Group (75/27)
-3rd Group (75/27)
-Provisional Infantry Gun Battery (65/17)

1st Group, 26th Artillery Regiment "Pavia" (100/17)
15th Anti-Aircraft Group (3 Batteries) (75/46)
10th Battery, 20th Army Corps Artillery Raggruppamento (8 20/65)

140th Blackshirt Battalion "Aquilia" (2 Companies)
Blackshirt Battalion "Volontari della Libia" (4 Companies, one formed from each Libyan CC.NN. legion)

64th Replacement Battalion (4 companies)
3rd Company, 62nd Replacement Battalion

22nd Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company
25th Anti-Tank Battery (6 47/32)
141st Mortar Company (No mortars in December, may have received some in January)
142nd Mortar Company (Same)

Eastern Libya Guardia alla Frontiera Command (Umberto Barberis):

31st Coverage Sector
-31st/A Subsector (4 strongpoints)
-31st/B Subsector (2 strongpoints)
-31st Mixed Engineer Detachment
-31st Frontier Guard Artillery Raggruppamento
--5th Group (242nd (120/25) Battery)
--6th Group (230th Bis (120/25) and 231st Bis (120/25) Batteries)
--7th Group (244th (149/35) and 245th (149/35) Batteries)

Elements of the 32nd Coverage Sector
-2 strongpoints
-31st Libyan Coastal Infantry Battalion (3 companies)
-Elements of the 32nd Frontier Guard Artillery Raggruppamento
--1st Group (249th Battery (75/27))
--2nd Group (246th Battery (77/28))
--3rd Group (247th Battery (77/28))
Artillery Section "Buffolotto" (2 149/35)

Tobruk Coast Sector - Massimiliano Vietina
-11 regular naval batteries
--"Dandolo", "Bellotti", "Grasso" of 149/47
--"Tortora", "Beiad", "Sidi Mahmud", "Pilastrino" of 102/35
--"Tordo", "Toro", "Topo", "Tonno" of 76/40
-Naval battery "Nembo" formed from 120/45 guns taken from the sunk destroyer "Nembo"
-Training battery "Vittoria" formed from spare guns from the depots
-Cruiser "San Giorgio" (4 254/30, 8 190/45) used as a floating battery

An interesting debate exists around whether to model "San Giorgio" as multiple batteries or just one. Here are some arguments on both sides:
Multiple:
They can shoot independently
They have different fields of fire (not modeled in game)
Number of guns (invalidated by British battery numbers and naval branch)
One:
They can move independently (invalidated because they can't move)
They take up too much space
(This debate would have resulted in the relacement of the "Buffolotto" battery that is also partially fictional)
They can reorganize separately (invalidated because I intend to disable reorganizing on ships altogether)

One of the anti-aircraft groups responsible for defending the Dodecanese islands had a total of 21 subordinate batteries yet was still a battalion-level unit.
So I think it wouldn't be a stretch to call the Tobruk coastal sector, consisting of 11 batteries and a ship, a battalion-level unit as well.

By my estimations, the engineers at Tobruk did little. The British and Australian ones had to contend with a minefield that barely existed at all and no anti-tank ditch.
For the Italians, things were not much better. Not once are the engineers mentioned outside of an order of battle. They were probably little more than laborers or maintenance workers.

To my horror, I am now once again forced to count artillery pieces.
The reason for this is that the 337 vs 343 controversy has now been resolved. The answer was that the Wikipedians screwed up.
Rather than 123 guns in each of the two eastern artillery groups, there were 123 TOTAL between them. Thus 123+97 results in the total of 220 field guns.
Missing (Still): 3 76/30, 1 149/35, 3 100/17. I think at this point we might as well give most of these to the "Vittoria" battery and then try to jank everything else into place.
Also, I think the only real way to make this all fit with both the numbers and Montanari's sketch is to say that the 105/28 battery of the 22nd CAR was actually split.
That way, half of it can be with the mixed group of the G.a.F. without there being too many 105/28 guns in total. I can't think of any other way for this to work.

I'm gonna go back to the WDF map of Tobruk, which graciously includes the armnament of each individual strongpoint and see what I can gather about the dispositions.
Sector East - 49 AT Guns (Montanari gives 42, I'm assuming the G.a.F. reorganizations and reinforcement G.a.F. batteries and 20/65s changed things up)
    Subsector A - 26 AT Guns, 37 Fortifications (24 With AT Guns)
        Strongpoint Zeitun - 0 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Sidi Daud - 7 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Suesi - 7 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Bur (I)Junes - 12 AT Guns
    Subsector B - 23 AT Guns, 21 Fortifications
        Strongpoint Dahar el Azazi - 10 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Bir Umm Haleiga - 13 AT Guns
Sector West - 74 AT Guns (Montanari gives no numbers for this so it doesn't matter)
    Subsector A - 26 AT Guns
        [Former Merged Strongpoint - 12 AT Guns]
            Strongpoint Hagfet Umm Haleiga - 6 AT Guns
            Strongpoint Sidi Cheiralla - 6 AT Guns
        [Former Merged Strongpoint - 14 AT Guns]
            Strongpoint Bir el Faras - 7 AT Guns
            Strongpoint Bir eg Giasc - 7 AT Guns
    Subsector B - 29 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Bir el Medauuar - 10 AT Guns
        [Former Merged Strongpoint - 19 AT Guns]
            Strongpoint Ras el Medauuar - 10 AT Guns
            Strongpoint Ras es Sehel - 9 AT Guns
    Subsector C - 19 AT Guns
        [Honestly I have no idea which strongpoints would've been formerly merged]
        Strongpoint Es Sehel - 6 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Bir el Meclub - 7 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Umm Cuheil - 6 AT Guns
(There are also a bunch of weird positions labelled around the Tobruk harbor area and at positions like Point 71 and Solaro)
I'll also try to triangulate the data that Montanari gives of the 6 initially lost positions (Rs 52,54,55,56,57,59) had 4 47/32s, 1 75/27, and 1 20/65. The map shows these positions with a total of 6 guns, which lines up.
The issue is that I'm not sure how 49 became 42, especially given that this map is from January 12, far too late for the garrison to have made any further reorganizations. The G.a.F. frontier move had already happened.

Here's my guess for the composition of the 42 guns Montanari claims in the Eastern Sector during the battle, as well as the 117 total AT Guns he lists:

AT Guns:
42 20/65
    14-18 (2 Batteries of Unknown Size) in the Rapid Unit
    24-28 Free
10 77/28
    2 at Point 71
    8 (246th and 247th Batteries) Free
1 76/40 (At El Adem Crossroads Position)
11 75/27
    3 at Point 144
    8 (249th and "Derna" Batteries) Free
13 65/17 (All Free)
43 47/32
    2 at Point 71
    4 in the Rapid Unit
    37 Free
39 37/10 (All in tanks, at El Adem Crossroads Position)
Total Guns: 159 (117 Non-20/65)
Total Free: 90-94

Alternate:
26 20/65
8 77/28
8 75/27
13 65/17
37 47/32
Total: 92

42 Eastern Sector:
8 77/28
8 75/27
10 20/65
16 47/32

Yet somehow, the WDF/XIII Corps map managed to find a total of 123 guns, way more than this. They couldn't have been taken by the G.a.F., so where are they?
Honestly, I'm gonna go ahead and just disregard this map. It seems outdated and a lot of stuff just doesn't make sense.
For example, there are 6 or more 120/25 batteries shown, as well as some coastal 120/25 batteries, and also 6 or more 105/28 batteries. None of that matches up.
One solution to this problem is to not have it. I'll go for this for now by downright ignoring all the anti-tank guns and integrating them into the strongpoint units.

The civilian population of Tobruk in 1939 was just 5032 people, compared to the more than a hundred thousand in Tripoli. Marmarica in general was poor and utterly barren of useful resources.
Worse, we can expect that after the three battles, this population was further decreased. We know that the British evacuated many "useless" personnel during their siege so maybe this is where they came from.

The source of the Carabinieri that appear defending the port were probably not the three sections that the 22nd Army Corps and Sirte Division had between them.
Rather, I think it's more likely that these personnel came from the local barracks (one was present in Tobruk) and were not an organized formation in any way.

The three main posts of the XXX Coverage Sector on the Egyptian border were at Amseat, Scegga, and Giarabub. I honestly couldn't tell you what the first two actually contributed to the battle.
This suggests that the organizations after Operation E probably resulted in the some of these posts becoming considered unnecessary and getting disbanded.
It's also weird that the Italians built a "Sheferzen" strongpoint when Bir Sheferzen is on the wrong side of the Frontier Wire. There must have been a "Libyan Sheferzen" or something that I don't know about.

One source claims that the "Assault Tanks" of the Italian army were never built, and instead they built the L3 Tank. This is quite funny given the L3 Tank is literally the "Assault Tank" discussed previously.
This guy also wrongly believes that the Blackshirt Divisions were organized in the triangular structure of the metropolitan legions. This was not the case as they were forced to adopt standard army organizations.
He also claims that the Libyan CC.NN. Legions were useless (true) but that the Volontari della Libia Battalion was "outstanding" and "fought well" which I would debate since it didn't do much of anything.
And in the most strange of all his claims, he states the existence of an Italian XIII Corps with the 1st Libyan Division. This corps had been in Sardinia the entire war and never made it to Libya.
Yet another mistake comes when he notes that non-motorized infantry were useless in the North African theatre. He seems to not realize that both the Division z.b.V. Afrika and Savona Division seem to have done quite well.

The worst crime of this guy, however, is that he ends up repeating the standard claim that Graziani blundered by advancing using a large infantry force rather than a smaller motorized one.
I want to dispell this myth because, while Graziani was a war criminal, he was absolutely not a complete idiot. He was well aware of the value of motorization and would've taken that choice if it was available.
But it was not available. There was a crushing lack of trucks or fuel in Libya to actually motorize anything. There's a reason that Raggruppamento Maletti, a non-divisional formation, got the few that were around.

The dumbest statement of them all, though not relevant to here, is that he argues that launching Operation Sealion in July 1940 made "good tactical sense". What?
The Kriegsmarine was hopeless and there wasn't a good chance of getting more than a single convoy across the channel. Why did he say this? It just makes no sense and I have no idea how this guy came to this conclusion.

After a relatively inconsequential engagement on 5 August 1940 in which the Italians got revenge for D'Avanzo's defeat and captured two British tanks, Colonel Aresca wrote a report.
While he thought the lack of optics and radio in the tanks continued to weaken them, he was satisfied with their performance and asked for more support equipment and personnel.

The 47/32 company and two 65/17 batteries given to the 1st Libyan Division in reinforcement both came from the G.a.F. as did the two 65/17 batteries given to the 2nd Libyan Division.
The 19th Libyan Infantry Battalion had its three companies split up, with two at Nibeiwa and the third at Alam el Iktufa. The Alam el Iktufa force also had a 47/32 company, 65/17 battery, and 20/65 section.
The 135th Blackshirt Battalion arrived at Sollum on the 9th of December to meet with the rest of the 2nd Blackshirt Division. The III Group of the 202nd Artillery Regiment (100/17) was also there.
This guy also claims that the III/43rd Artillery group had just 8 100/17 guns. If this was the case it was only temporary since otherwise there was no way for enough 100/17 guns to appear in Tobruk
Also, wasn't the group with 100/17 guns meant to be the I Group? I don't trust this source much anyway and this isn't really something that I can easily reconcile.

One company of the 1st KRRC was deployed to support the 3rd Coldstream Guards at Halfaya Pass at the start of Compass as well as one company from the 1st RNF MG Battalion.
The tank component of D'Avanzo's column was the 3rd Company, IX Light Tank Battalion (L3), commanded by a Captain Rizzi. Since it was destroyed the battalion reorganized itself with just two companies.
It appears the light tank battalions had just 40 tanks apiece, rather than the later 46, with just 13 in each company. It seems this is because of the lack of the two radio tanks per company that were later added.

I also read through a bit of Rodolfo Graziani's book, "A Life For Italy", which I thought was decently well-written but had absolutely nothing of value in relation to the Tobruk battle.

It seems some mixed engineer battalions were reinforced with bonus searchlight units in addition to the single section they typically have.
The 33rd "Acqui" Infantry Division's 33rd Mixed Engineer Battalion (the battalion may have been disbanded) had a 7th Searchlight Company and 4 independent sections split across the Ionian islands.

In fact, I've gone into something of a paper-reading phase. I'll just list all the major takeaways for this next set here as a couple giant blocks.
Each will also be added to sources, but might not result in much in terms of actual gains, since they are only adjacent to the Crusader and Tobruk topics.

The first is written from a South African perspective regarding their two defeats at Sidi Rezegh and Tobruk. The writing is pretty good and they criticize popular history, which I agree with.
I could only find one minor mistake, in that they claimed Tobruk fell to the British before Bardia did. But other than that everything has been rather excellent.
The British gun, the 3.7 inch, was basically a 88mm gun. The Italians also had the 90/53. It's mainly due to their aggressive tactics that the 88mm is much more famous than either of them.
Two days after becoming CiCME, Auckinleck told Churchill that "It is quite clear to me that infantry divisions... are no good". Yeah, he wasn't subtle about his poor knowledge.
Brink complained about the use of his division as it arrived in Egypt between May and June 1941, as it was employed as construction crews to build up the Matruh defenses.
And I'm very happy to see that South African historians do nothing to downplay the Italian victory at Bir el Gubi, and in fact are fast to come to the Italians' defense.
They also claim that Jan Smuts showed some actual military talent and in fact argued for the combined arms utilization of 1st South African Division, but his wishes fell on deaf ears and Brink didn't press the issue.
Brink made some more delusional reports after the defeat at Bir el Gubi, claiming that the Italian M13/40 tanks were actual partially crewed by Germans, which is just an insane thing to say.
TIK gives 30 tanks lost by 15th Panzer Division in the first engagement with the 4th Armoured Brigade but the South African historians consider this a gross overestimation.
The Ariete Division's tank strength only decreased by something like 30 after Bir el Gubi since repairs were made. Most of their losses instead attrition or minor battles (8 lost to South Africans on 21 November).
The Sidi Rezegh "box" position was supported not just by South African artillery but also by elements of the 2nd Scots Guards, 1st Light Anti-Aircraft Regiment, and the 3rd South African Armored Car Regiment.
The 5th South African Brigade had at that time 46 25-pounders, 2 18-pounders and 24 2-pounders for a total of 72 artillery pieces, 35 facing south.
Brink also took the wrong lessons from the destruction at Sidi Rezegh. He in fact thought that the British forces should become even more static ("box" defenses) and discouraged night moves.

Moving on, the second piece of this paper covers the defeat at Tobruk. So far, it has in fact offered a very modern and nuanced analysis of the last battle so I'll keep reading.
The board of inquiry set up to examine that battle largely exonerates Klopper, but even the paper admits that his handling of the battle was in many ways rather inept.
Klopper later published some memoirs of his own and made sure that Auckinleck's ones didn't point out his failures. I'm somewaht sympathetic to his position but not very.
There's also a very raw quote regarding the imprecision of personal accounts: "the individual being in the center of the densest clouds generated by the fog of war".
Klopper had in fact been responsible for the orders that resulted in the successful reduction of Schmitt's position in Bardia at minimal casualties (the second assault, as the hasty first had failed).
At Gazala, while the 1st South African Brigade was a veteran formation that had taken 138 prisoners during Crusader for 389 casualties (mostly due to air attack), Du Toit's 2nd was poorly trained.
The Gazala "box" defenses also had their transport sent away to avoid it being destroyed by artillery fire, leaving these positions immobile. It was the same mistake the Italians made in 1940.
Barnett and Carver disagree on Ritchie's defensive plans at Gazala, with Barnett arguing that only a thin screen (like that of O'Connor in 1940) should have faced the initial advance.
I side with the latter, however. O'Connor could only retreat because there was nothing of value up to Matruh. Giving up Tobruk for little of a fight would've been political and military suicide.
However, while this claim by Barnett is a little unreasonable, I still respect him as a historian for his reasonable appraisals of Ritchie, Auckinleck, and Montgomery as commanders.
The destruction of the 3rd Indian Motor Brigade was actually a massacre. The Italians suffered just 76 casualties and 25 tanks and inflicted 494 killed and wounded plus 600 prisoners.

As early as 10 May 1942, Ritchie and Auckinleck had agreed and given orders to their corps commanders that Tobruk was not to be held. ABC and Tedder agreed.
British communications were so poor by this point that Klopper only learned of the loss of El Adem when a reconaissance force from the Umvoti Mounted Rifles found the enemy there.
I agree with the paper that the Morshead's Australian Division had it easy and faced exclusively poor planned attacks by Rommel. Their pride over the South Africans is unjustified.
Most secondary sources are wrong about the poor state of the Tobruk defenses in the second siege, as many other engineer officers disagree with Gaussen's claims.
The need to deploy a portion of the 6th South African Brigade along the coast is often criticized but wasn't a horrible move given the lack of armored cars in the second siege.
TIK is also wrong that the German claim of the bombardment neutralizing the minefields is incorrect. Eyewitness accounts note the premature detonation of many of the mines.
Reeve of the 7th RTR might actually have been named Reeves with an s. I think this is a more normal name but there's no shortage of goofy British names.
Brigadiers Willison and Johnson was not blameless in the failed counterattack. Willison failed to show up entirely and Johnson didn't order the infantry units to take any initiative.
The overoptimistic claims of Klopper were not caused by him as much as they were caused by the lackluster state of communications in the 11th Indian Infantry Brigade's sector.
Hayton, whose idea it was to form a defensive base in his sector rather than conduct a breakout, later changed his decision, further confusing the fortress command.
Unsurprisingly, the Blake Group was commanded by a Lt.-Col. Blake. I don't know if he was from a headquarters or if he was a formal unit commmander.
Only a single general, Klopper, was captured. However, this is because the British don't consider brigadier to be a general rank, as seven of them were lost.

They conclude with an honestly very insightful point that South Africa, which technically won but in a highly qualified manner, is similar in its remembrance of the war to France or Italy.
Pienaar claimed that rather than masking the Ariete Division, he was in fact locked in a difficult battle with the 21st Panzer Division at Taieb el Esem, which was a complete lie.

Notes on commanders:
Lt.-Col W. Kirby was commander of the 3rd Transvaal Scottish Battalion and was killed at Sidi Rezegh (in the failed attack on Point 178, not the climactic destruction of 5th South African Infantry Brigade).
Armored car companies were numbered sequentially. The 1st was commanded during Crusader by Major Harry Klein.
A major Cochran became the acting commander of the 1st South African Irish Regiment after its previous commander was incapacitated by some means (I don't know which).
Colonel Bastin was the quartermaster general of XIII Corps and stayed in Tobruk to manage the extensive supply installations based there.
Brigadier C. de L. Gaussen was the chief engineer of XIII Corps, Brigadier F.H. Kisch was the chief engineer of 8th Army and Colonel Henderson was chief engineer of 2nd South African Division.
The commander of the Tobruk artillery (he may have been from XIII Corps or from 2nd South African Division) was a Colonel Richards (given his rank he was probably from the division).

In a kinda boneheaded move I didn't realize that the 4th "Genova Cavalleria" Machine Gun SQUADRONS GROUP was in fact made of squadrons and not companies.
I think I implemented this somewhere but it never occurred to me that this should also be translated into English as "Squadron", not as "Company".

A standard Italian squadrons group had a tiny HQ and two regular squadrons. A regiment of two squadrons groups would also bring a light machine gun squadron.
I don't know if this is Ness's research or the mitigation of an Italian archivist, but the artillery regiments of the Pavia and Brescia Divisions didn't "fail to be shipped". They were destroyed.
In February 1941, a Raggruppamento celere della Sicilia was formed out of fear caused by Compass and the rapidly arriving need for more units in Africa, although it never made it there.
This consisted of the 6th Bersaglieri Regiment (plus a motorcycle company), a light tank battalion, and an anti-tank battalion (a special newly formed unit with 3 motorized companies).
Funnily, the 3rd "Principe Amadeo Duca d'Aosta" Celere Division actually had no cavalry by 1942 since they had become their own unit. Their old division was now just full of Bersaglieri.

While I don't know how the 4th "Genova Cavalleria" Machine Gun Squadrons Group was organized the similar squadrons group units sent to East Africa had just 2 squadrons.
Never mind, I do. Montanari gives 4 squadrons, honestly a pretty high number. In his typical blundering Nafziger translated this to "4 platoons". How is he so bad at this?
At the very least, he does give sources which softens the blow and gives me a chance to prove him wrong. But this level of poor quality is honestly unacceptable and it seems the AHF people agree.
The 10th Bersaglieri Regiment was the only one originally in Africa and thus had a unique organization with just 1790 men (96 HQ, 3 x 463 Battalions,  155 AT Company, 150 Transport)

Of the four battalions that formed the 34th GaF Artillery Regiment (reorganized from the 34th Raggruppamento) during Crusader, one actually managed to survive to make it to Tunisia.
That battalion was the 343rd, and it contained two batteries of 105/28. While its survival is impressive, 8 outdated guns were of little to not consequence at this point in the campaign.

There was also a mysterious fourth battalion of the 12th "Sila" Artillery Regiment that appears at this time and was converted to the 357th GaF Battalion. It had 3 75/27 batteries.
This is weird given the Savona Division was destroyed by this time. My guess is that this was actually the replacement for the 1st/12th Battalion that had been lost on transport.
Upon arriving only to find that its parent division and regiment no longer existed, the battalion had no need to exist anymore and was reorganized into a GaF unit since only GaF depots were in Tripoli.

I don't know if this was the case for Tobruk, but the port defense commands in mainland Italy and Sicily were given the term "Comando di Difesa del Porto".
There were also coastal sections according to Niehorster. He mispells that for Tobruk as "coast section" but I don't think there's much of any real difference between these terms.
I think the harbor defense (port defense) and coastal defense sectors were distinct functions, though. But I can't tell what this means for Vietina, if he did in fact have a sector and not a harbor.
Or, if he had the harbor and the sector, I wouldn't be able to prove that just yet. I might look around to see if I can find anything on the matter, though.
Montanari actually gives his title as "command of the naval base" or "comandante della base navale" so I really can't disambiguate this. I guess we go with the Montanari answer?

The Trento Division appears to have been reinforced at some point with the 104th and 106th companies of 47/32 guns. They appear in a map of Montanari dated 14-17 April 1941.
However, this is entirely new to me since they haven't appeared anywhere else... yet. But maybe that's just because I haven't spent much of any time looking.
Yeah. I checked Wikipedia and they're right there. So I'm going to note that I somewhat badly mismanaged this and never really researched the Trento Divsiion as much as the Savona, Sabratha, or Sirte (3S).

Full list of additional units given to the Trento Division:
156th Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company (September 1941)
II Group of the 46th Artillery Regiment (existed in Spring 1941 but not in November)
412th and 414th AA Batteries of 20/65
102nd, 104th, and 106th Anti-Tank Companies of 47/32 (merged into the DLI Support Weapons Battalion in September 1941)
IV Anti-Tank Battalion "Granatieri di Sardegna" and the 254th and 355th GaF Artillery Groups of 77/28 (By Second El Alamein)

In preparation for the attack of the British on November 1941, the Italians had some interesting maps drawn that Montanari reproduces.
For one, they identify a bunch of stuff wrong. The 70th Division is now the 8th Division, it has a 6th Brigade, and the 2nd Cameron Highlanders are numbered the 11th.
Also, they have some interestingly named columns given for the British, other than the 11th Indian Infantry Brigade, 7th Support Group, and 70th Division. For example:

Colonna "Piccola Sorella" ("Little Sister" Column):
Elements of the 1st Battalion, King's Royal Rifle Corps
1 Battery From the 2nd Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery
1 Light Anti-Aircraft Section

Other columns: "Piccolo Fratello" ("Little Brother"), "Fratello" ("Brother"), "Sorella" ("Sister")
All of these columns were formed from elements of the 7th Support Group to guard the frontier while the 8th Army was still in formation.
In fact, they have pretty much the same structure as Jock Columns, at least in the case of this one. Maybe that was the point of their formation.
I don't know what the British called them, however, since they don't appear anywhere. Playfair is completely silent about any of them and the names were probably not the ones the British used.
But even though we don't know exactly, I think it would honestly be very funny to have these names on the columns, but it's whatever.

Montanari also gives different OOBs for the three columns that participated in Operation (Unternehmen) Sommernachstraum.
Left Column (Kampfgruppe Stephan): 5th Panzer Regiment, 1 MG Company, 1 Anti-Tank Company, 1 Engineer Company
Center Column (Recovery Unit (Kampfgruppe Panzenhagen?)): 1 Anti-Tank Company, 1 Artillery Battery, Many Recovery Trucks
Right Column (Kampfgruppe Schütte): 33rd Reconaissance Battalion, 1 Artillery Battery
These are nothing like what TIK's sources give, which is worrying. I feel as if Montanari is the generally more reliable source so I'll take his side.
However, the Operation Sommernachtstraum mission is already done. So that means its time to go do some rebuilding.
I'm also going to guess that the center column did in fact still have the 3rd Battalion, 347th Infantry Regiment since it would be weird to have no infantry at all.
But honestly everything is becoming a mess again. I don't trust Montanari's information about this operation very much so I'm gonna side with not making any major changes.

But there is one cool result, though. The maps with the "family" columns also show the 11th Indian Infantry Brigade still forward, reinforcing my idea for the OOB of Sommernachtstraum.
I don't think elements from the 11th Indian Infantry Brigade actually ended up doing anything until Bir el Gubi, but it's nice to know that I was right when I made that decision.

Panzerjäger means "tank hunter" in German. For this reason, the Italian translation ends up being the kinda cool sounding "cacciatori carri" (meaning the same thing).
Other than that, the Italian translations of German OOBs are surprisingly high quality. One weird one I found was "XV Machine Gun Battalion", which is probably the 15th Motorcycle Battalion.
Also he calls Kampfgruppe Marcks "Raggruppamento Marks" and notes the existence of an XXI Indian Infantry Brigade (probably the 29th but they slightly screwed up the number).
When Daumiller's group from the 288th Sonderverband appears for the first time, it shows up defending the right flank at the Marada Oasis, along with the some Sahiariana troops and GaF units.
The larger 288th Sonderverband reappears as the "288° Reparto Esplorante Tedesca" or 288th German Reconaissance Unit still holding the right flank during the pursuit to the Gazala line.
A 500th Reconaissance Company appears just ahead of it. I have no idea what this unit is and I don't think it was from the 288th, so I honestly don't have any idea what this was.
Actually, now that I think about it, that's probably the 580th Reconaissance Company, which also reappears holding the western front against the Free French at Bir Hacheim.

On the 23rd October 1942, "Subsector Sirte" existed under the military command of Tripolitania's defense, but had no assigned units. Its subsectors were "Sirte" itself and "Nofilia".
This book ("The Third British Offensive") has a ton of maps for a very short period between Second El Alamein's beginning and the arrival and defensive preparations in Tunisia.
In Rommel's canceled November attack on Tobruk, not only did he envision the use of the nearly fully built Afrika Division, but also a battalion from the rebuilding Sabratha Division.
This battalion doesn't seem to have ever arrived, and instead only made it to Sirte where it was protecting the local airfields from potential LRDG raids.

The destroyed garrison force at Gialo was meant to reconsistute the 8th Bersaglieri Battalion. It consisted of the following:
2 Bersaglieri Companies (-2 platoons), a 47/32 Bersaglieri Company (-3 pieces, so it was very weak), a mixed machine gun and anti-tank company (1 platoon of MGs, 1 platoon of 37mm and 47mm guns).
There were also some loose units, including a 47/32 platoon from the Sabratha Division, a training section with 2 75/27 guns, and 20/35 battery with 8 pieces.
The 2 detached platoons and 3 detached 47/32 guns were defending the adjacent Oases of Augila and Gicherra.
I find this actually very weird, since it doesn't seem to be a mixed support battalion at all. Rather, its strength is very similar to that of a regular Bersaglieri battalion (2 rifle and 1 support companies).

Supposedly, on the 8th of August 1941, the Trento Division was not part of the XXI Corps and instead part of the Sabratha Division was there. This may be a classic Montanari mistake though.
He also gives a somewhat unique-seeming OOB for the Afrika Division dated to the 1st of November. Let's break down the somewhat challenging translation here. Numbers in brackets added by me.
[1] Divisional Command With 259th Mapping Detachment (Kartenstelle)
[4] III/347th Infantry Regiment
[4] III/255th Infantry Regiment (in reconstitution) - this was probably caused by its losses fighting inside the Ras el Medauuar salient
[12] 155th Infantry Regiment (3 Battalions)
[9] 2nd Celere Artillery Regiment
    1st Group (3 Batteries of 100/17)
    2nd Group (2 Batteries of 75/27)
    3rd Group (2 Batteries of 75/27)
    402nd Battery of 20/65
    405th Battery of 20/65
Total: ~30 Companies, 8 Battalions
Arguably, this organization is very interesting and could be used for a future variant of the Crusader OOB. A sort of "Crusader but cursed" now sounds like an interesting prospect to me.

He also notes the non-existence of the 4th Company, 1st Battalion, 8th Panzer Regiment at this time, while the 2nd Battalion does have all four companies as do both battalions in 5th Panzer Regiment.

Disaster! I've found evidence that the artieri company of the Sabratha Division was numbered the 27th. The translation is a little cursed since it calls this a battalion, but the number 27 is unused.
This puts into doubt everything I've previously gained about the Sirte Division's engineer company number. Now it could be literally anything. If I find time I'll do some more research on this topic.
On the other hand, it's not conclusive evidence. In fact, the artieri company is shown as a battalion with two companies. Maybe this was a company with two platoons or maybe such a battalion actually existed.

The 559th Anti-Tank Battalion was meant to be part of the the 5th Light Division on its first formation but never actually made it to Africa. Instead it went to the USSR.
It had three companies each consisting of 3.7cm guns. It had originally been motorized but I don't think it was still by the time it was intended to be sent to Africa, hence why it didn't go.

During the Crusader period, Gioda's 10th Army Corps was responsible for the defense of the area east of Sirte, merging his command with the military command of Cyrenaica.
The Bologna Division's 10th Machine Gun Battalion remains an elusive unit of unclear existence. I was unable to find much on the web about it and its only mentioned once in shady circumstances.

The Sirte Division's single section of Carabinieri was numbered the 261st. Or at least I think it was based on the confusing writing "PM 261. 1a Sez. CC.RR."
It appears based on the information about other divisions that this means the Carabinieri command was numbered the 261st, and the subordinate section was just the 1st.
For some cursed reason, posts R27 and R29 in the Tobruk defenses is labeled on Google Maps. These post was in the Sidi Cheiralla Strongpoint. I don't know which battle made them famous.
Based on some information I'm read, it may be because the Germans chose to attack in this area in some of the early attacks against Tobruk as it lacked a deep anti-tank ditch.

Something that annoys me to no end is the fact that the Eastern Artillery Raggruppamento corresponds to Subsector A but the Central Artillery Raggruppamento fails to exactly correspond to Subsector B.
Instead, its 148th Group, 25th CAR manages to poke out into the area of Subsector C. No other unit in the Raggruppamento does this, as even the "Buffolotto" section just manages to not cross the border.
Thus, the Western Artillery Raggruppamento, which should be the only one in the Western Sector, actually had part of its jurisdiction robbed from its grasp and given to the Eastern Sector.
That said, though, the responsibilities of the sectors outside of the forward fortifications is pretty irrelevant. We could just say the line between them gave a little more space to the Eastern Sector.
It still annoys me, though, because these artillery positions were very close behind the strongpoint of Hagfet Umm Haleiga, so a redrawing of borders would look quite ugly.

Sources disagree on the number of Matilda II tanks possessed by the 7th Royal Tank Regiment at Tobruk. Some say 16 (I'd guess 2 companies of 8) while others say 18 (I'd guess 2 companies of 9).
I think the sources for 18 are generally more reliable so that's the number I'm gonna go with. Time to go reorganize all the existing establishments of this unit in game.
A later source states that the 16 number was from after the battle. They lost 2 or more during the battle and any difference were repaired so that the net loss from this battle was 2, which isn't much.

Active GaF Strongpoints list for later reference:
Sector East - 49 AT Guns (Montanari gives 42, I'm assuming the G.a.F. reorganizations and reinforcement G.a.F. batteries and 20/65s changed things up)
    Subsector A - 26 AT Guns, 37 Fortifications (24 With AT Guns)
        Strongpoint Zeitun - 0 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Sidi Daud - 7 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Suesi - 7 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Bur (I)Junes - 12 AT Guns
    Subsector B - 23 AT Guns, 21 Fortifications
        Strongpoint Dahar el Azazi - 10 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Bir Umm Haleiga - 13 AT Guns
Sector West - 16 AT Guns
    Subsector A - 6 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Hagfet Umm Haleiga - 6 AT Guns
    Subsector B - 10 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Bir el Medauuar - 10 AT Guns
    
A poster on AHF has posited a potential alternate history scenario where the Italians defended Tobruk successfully. His point of divergence is Marshal Balbo surviving.
I disagree. Balbo was an inspiring man but he couldn't save that trainwreck. I think the better point of divergence is the British failing to draw up exploitation plans early.
This gives enough time for the slippery Bergonzoli to reach Tobruk rather than being holed up in Bardia. With 60,000 men of the 10th Army in Tobruk, they weren't going to lose the fortress.

I've still not made any significant progress on the question of the artieri ever since I got informed of the non-consecutive number for the Sabratha Division's company.
I did try to track the date of formation both of the divisions and the brigades that preceded them, but I obtained no results and it seems the numbering of the companies was unrelated.
I also went and spent some more time doing a bunch of research but obtained little to no results. I don't think anywhere on the internet such information is mentioned, and I doubt the archives would either.

Alternate Generalized Strongpoints list (WIP):
Sector East - 49 AT Guns
    Subsector A - 19 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Zeitun - 0 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Sidi Daud - 7 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Suesi - 7 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Bur (I)Junes - 12 AT Guns
    Subsector B - 23 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Dahar el Azazi - 10 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Bir Umm Haleiga - 13 AT Guns
    Total:
        14 20/65
        4 77/28
        4 75/27
        7 65/17
        20 47/32
Sector West - 43 AT Guns (74)
    Subsector A - 26 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Hagfet Umm Haleiga - 6 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Sidi Cheiralla - 6 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Bir el Faras - 7 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Bir eg Giasc - 7 AT Guns
    Subsector B - 10 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Bir el Medauuar - 10 AT Guns
    Subsector C - 6 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Es Sehel - 6 AT Guns
    [1 Spare 47/32 Gun]
    Total:
        12 20/65
        4 77/28
        4 75/27
        6 65/17
        17 47/32

I'm now pretty confident that the 76/30 guns Montanari mentions were actually 76/30 and not 76/40, and they were part of the "Vittoria" battery, which was probably a motorized one.
These were 1915 Armstrong designs, not 1916 designs like the 76/40 guns were. Otherwise they weren't too different. But at least I know they didn't come from another naval battery.
The location of the Tordo battery is also sometimes referred to as Point 98. The other batteries were probably also built on height positions but their numbers aren't mentioned anywhere.

The Tobruk map from the XIII Corps Staff was made by the 512th Survey Company, Royal Engineers, and was reproduced from an Italian map from 1936, making it somewhat badly outdated.
14 of the 47/32 guns there are known to have been moved to Giarabub based on the information regarding dispositions provided by Castagna. The fate of the rest isn't well known.

I've got a better option for the whole AT guns question though. Instead of utter confusion, what if the GaF batteries and loose guns were active in the east but everything was organized in the west.
Sector East - 42 AT Guns
    10 20/65
        All G.a.F.
    8 77/28
        246th G.a.F. Battery
        247th G.a.F. Battery
    8 75/27
        249th G.a.F. Battery
        G.a.F. Training Battery "Derna"
    16 47/32
        All G.a.F.
Sector West - 50 AT Guns
    16 20/65
        10th/20th CAR
        13th/22nd CAR
    13 65/17
        69th Battery
        70th Battery
        Provisional Battery
    21 47/32
        25th Battery
        61st Battery
        Provisional Battery
        G.a.F. Spare Gun
The benefit is this solution is that we get to completely ignore the outdated map and we get to accept the unified philosophy of each sector: G.a.F. in the east, organized army units in the west.

Sources disagree on the status of the Uadi Hammar Guardia alla Frontiera formation. Ascoli calls it an independent strongpoint with 500 men while Regio Esercito calls it an independent subsector.
Ascoli also doesn't note the existence of a Southeast Tripoli Coverage Sector (sometimes numbered the XXXVI) and instead calls it just the "Southeast Front".
Given the supposed coverage sector's very strange organization (2 independent artillery groups and 2 cavalry machine gun squadrons) I think Ascoli's claim is much more convincing.

I've just made the Tobruk December map, which is now the standard for the British Capture of Tobruk scenario. It's a major departure from the old one but I'd call it an improvement.
Rather than Group Barberis, a name for the eastern sector, Barberis is still in command but of the garrison before any XXII Corps units arrived to reinforce. He had only G.a.F. units, though the navy provided backup.
The state of artillery at this early December time is hard to state since all sources I have come from after that or the Summer of 1940. It's not a long period that they were like this, so nothing was recorded.
I'm going to go with the minimalist Rostagno interpretation. There were no guns of any meaningful value except for those of the G.a.F. and the naval batteries, and the spare guns weren't yet active.
So, they have just 1 47/32 (spare gun), 8 75/27, 8 77/28, 4 105/28, 8 120/25, and 8 149/35 of the G.a.F., and all the various guns of the army. I'll also let them have the 2 77/28 and 1 149/13... or will I?
Honestly I don't like this unit. There's a total of 0 proof that it was even a G.a.F. unit or that it existed at this time. Similarly the naval "Nembo" and "Vittoria" batteries might not have been active.
The original set I made was a 20 vs 40. While based on testing this workes very well, I think that, historically, it's highly unsound. So I'm gonna do what I can to build instead a 18 vs 36 scenario.

And, I've also considered purging the naval units entirely and forming a 15 vs 30. But, honestly, that's just too few. It's what I'm gonna keep since it's known, but it ain't great to look at.
I'm gonna add it below, though, with a comparison to the source Montanari/Rostagno text that I'm trying to emulate.

(Original) Garrison on December 9, 1940:

Eastern Libya G.a.F. Command
Fortress Command
31st Coverage Sector (Minus 2 Strongpoints)
Elements of the 32nd Coverage Sector
242nd Battery / XXXI/5 (4 120/25)
31st Coverage Sector (Minus 2 Strongpoints) (Again, confusion)
244th and 245th Batteries / XXXI/7 (8 149/35)
249th Battery / XXXII/1 (4 75/06)
246th Battery / XXXII/2 (4 77/28)
247th Battery / XXXII/3 (4 77/28)
Training Battery "Derna" (4 75/06)
1 47/32 Gun
3rd Company, 62nd Replacements Battalion
64th Replacement Battalion
31st Libyan Coastal Battalion
63rd Garrison Company
31st Mixed Engineer Unit

My Version:

Eastern Libya G.a.F. Command
-Fortress Command

31st Coverage Sector
-31st/A Subsector (2 Strongpoints)
-31st/B Subsector (2 Strongpoints)
-Formational Anti-Aircraft Battery (10 20/65)
-Formational Anti-Tank Battery (8 47/32 + 1 47/32)
-Formational Anti-Tank Battery (8 47/32)
-31st Artillery Raggruppamento
--5th Group
---242nd Battery / XXXI/5 (4 120/25)
--6th Group
---230th Bis and 231st Bis Batteries / XXXI/6 (8 120/25)
--7th Group
---244th and 245th Batteries / XXXI/7 (8 149/35)

32nd Coverage Sector
-32nd/A Subsector (2 Strongpoints) (Later Disbanded With 1 Strongpoint Sent to the 31st/A Subsector)
-32nd/B Subsector (2 Strongpoints) (Later Disbanded With 1 Strongpoint Sent to the 31st/A Subsector)

Anti-Tank Raggruppamento
-1st Group
--249th Battery / XXXII/1 (4 75/06)
-2nd Group
--246th Battery / XXXII/2 (4 77/28)
-3rd Group
--247th Battery / XXXII/3 (4 77/28)
-Training Battery "Derna" (4 75/06)

3rd Company, 62nd Replacements Battalion
64th Replacement Battalion (4 Companies)
31st Libyan Coastal Battalion (3 Companies)
63rd Garrison Company
31st Mixed Engineer Unit

I feel a uniquely strange sense of catharsis after learning about the later fate of Robert Crisp. I don't have anything against this guy other than that his memoirs just sound annoying.
Either way, his disagreements with Montgomery led to several demotions and a transfer from the South African Army to the British one. His career was stagnant for the rest of the war.

I learned based on a British War Diary (C Battery RHA) that the commander of the 1st Medium Tank Battalion was a Major Ceva. But when I checked, I already had this in the game.
Which is weird, because nowhere else on this notes document is his name mentioned. So how this could've possibly happened is anyone's guess. Either way, he was probably Locatelli's successor at the battalion.
I don't have proof he was at Tobruk and in fact it seems like he might have been captured, or maybe only documents about him were captured and he was alive or was killed by some random cause anyway.
It may be that I found this out on Comando Supremo, where an old forum thread mentions this. But I could've gained it from some other place and just never knew. Strange.

C Battery RHA replaced F Battery RHA for the Tobruk battle and was placed under the command of Mackay. At this time, C Battery was commanded by a G.W. Goschen, with G.H. Thomas as his second in command.
Before Jock Campbell took control of 4th RHA, it was actually Wilson of 3rd RHA who commanded 4th RHA. The previous commander of 3rd RHA was Latham (probably the same one who lost 2nd Support Group).
A G.E. Lomas seems to have been commanding F Battery during the later stages (and probably the earlier stages) of Operation Compass. Unlike the rest his name carries no notoriety.
However, he was injured near Pilastrino and replaced by Currie. A rare case of actual damage that the British admit the Italians inflicted upon them. I guess that's why he never appears again.

It appears that the 116th Infantry Regiment from the Marmarica Division was unique in that it had its own anti-tank company rather than relying on a divisional one.
I haven't found anything similar for any other division during this period. It honestly doesn't make any sense and feels like a typo even though I have absolutely no evidence that it is.

So, here's a list of unresolved mysteries:
Sirte Division artieri company number
4th Tank Infantry Regiment anti-aircraft battery number
Organization of 76/40 guns in the naval batteries

The commanders of the squadrons of the 11th Hussars were as following. Note that when Combe left command to obtain a position at Cyrenaica command he was replaced by Leetham.
(Combe) A: Smail, B: Miller, C: Ward
(Leetham) A: Robarts, B: Wainman, C: Ward

By the way, I use to do all the gun counting in this notes file, but now that the counting has been completed inside the Listing/Tobruk/guns.txt file, this will no longer occur here.
Similarly, I'll try to minimize the amount of redundant OOBs that already exist somewhere in either the Listing folder or in the Listing Archive folder, but random incidental ones will still appear here.
Other than every Italian army corps having an artillery officer, they also had an engineer officer each, and of course a chief of staff. Unfortunately most of these staff officers are shady personalities.
However, it's worth noting that I don't know if this man was also the commander of the corresponding Engineer Raggruppamento that almost all corps had, with artieri and collegamenti battalions.

I thought that 20/35 and 20/65 guns might be different models, but this is incorrect. The competing gun to the Breda 20mm was the Scotti 20mm, but that gun had a designation of 20/77.
Rather, the "35" refers to the year, 1935, when this design was first created. The Scotti model wasn't built in any meaningful numbers until 1941 and thus wouldn't show up in Operation Compass.

The XV Anti-Aircraft Group (of 12 75/46) has also been tracked down thanks to tacticalorganization.com. It was one of three groups deployed in September 1940 to the North African coast.
The VII was sent to Benghazi, the XV to Derna, and the XVII to Bardia. This unit from Derna making it to Tobruk mirrored the movement of the XXXI Libyan Coastal Battalion which also formed in Derna.
I think these groups had only been formed recently. It's known that production on the 75/46 was pretty slow and there were constant shortages, and the XV Group doesn't appear in June OOBs.

In a kinda poetic moment, the depots of the Sirte and Catanzaro Divisions were actually both in Catanzaro, which was in the 21st Military Zone of the territorial army.
It's funny, since both of these depots formed field replacement battalions to replenish their overseas divisions. And both of those, the LXI and LXIV, were destroyed in the same battle almost side by side.
Aside from those two Type AS Division depots, the city of Catanzaro's venue was also shared by some other units, those being:
The depot of the 48th "Taro" Infantry Division, a territorial carabinieri legion (couldn't find a designation), the 564th Blackshirt Battalion, and a battery of the 21st Anti-Aircraft Militia Legion.
It's also cool to know that this was a rare case where a divisional depot was actually in the city it was named for, as the Catanzaro Division's depot was in Catanzaro.
In contrast, the Savona Division was based out of Salerno and the Cirene Division was based out of Savona. The Sabratha Division had its depot based in Naples, and the Marmarica Division was based in Chieti.
That said, the Trento Division's depot was actually based out of Trento, though the Trieste Division didn't do the same, being based out of Piacenza.

I'm still not sure what the term for a G.a.F. corps command was. Did it include the words "army corps" or just a number? I think it sounds better with just a number but I don't exactly know.
I think that the need for the words "army corps" was never real and was an invention by my head. Which does make me look kinda goofy to be honest to have made this mistake.
But at least in my case it's already a solved problem, as I've been using the term "Easter Libya G.a.F. Command" and ignoring the number and parent army corps entirely.

With how much searching I'm done, I think this is probably the time to put to bed a very long obsession of mine: https://www.mercari.com/us/item/m53680487151/
It may not be a definitive answer. It sure isn't visually confirmable. But if there's one thing I learned from researching Crusader, it's that often times that's what you have to settle for.

Niehorster.org is down right now. If it doesn't intend to come back up, that's probably fine, since much of it is still preserved in the Waybackmachine, which I'm using for the time being.
However, it's not all that great. A lot of the deeper pages are just completely inaccessible since while the page contents are archived, the image that includes the actual OOB is unavailable.
Curse this guy for his style of site-making. While I think visually it does look great, the fact that making edits in this system must be abysmal was never apparent to him.

The famous Pasta Rule from The Campaign For North Africa (a game I consider generally historically suspect and outdated in its research) was probably a lie and added entirely as a joke by the developer.
There's little to no historical basis that this would ever be true. Water shortages in the Italian military in North Africa were already severe and there wouldn't have been spare water for pasta-making.
Also, pre-cooked pasta was often included in the rations they received, and many times they would have to do entirely with dry foods of varying quality.

Crusader uses a free-movement system. As the game is entirely digitized, there is no need to establish exact positions for units or literally anything since the code handles this problem itself.
On the other hand, there's the interesting case of Movebuild/26. I read some information on redbloblgames/com.grids/hexagons and apparently the system I used is called "axial coordinates".
The alternatives are offest coordinates (I think this system sucks), cube coordinates (axial with slightly more redundancy), and doubled coordinates (useful but very unintuitive).
I think based on this information that I managed to get the best option. Three years ago me who began Movebuild's development was an idiot, but at least he got this right.
While Movebuild/26 is long past the point where this is necessary, a lot of the things it offers, particularly in algorithms, are actually very helpful and worth keeping in the back of my mind.

The 10th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento was just outside Tobruk on the 1st of December 1940. While the unit was probably within the perimeter it was under Pitassi Manella's command, not Barberis's.
So that does mean there are elements of confusion regarding the actual state of units INSIDE Tobruk at the start of December, since some in the area weren't officially part of the garrison.
This wasn't true for all of it, however. Some parts of the raggruppamento are labelled as located at Soluch moving throguh El Abiar and Barce toward Tobruk.
It was able to complete this journey by the end of the month. The 25th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento with a couple attached I Groups was also on the way at Berta.

Let's clarify some things about the concept of the "static machine gun company". These were interval units, holding between fortifications, not the fortifications themselves.
Thus it is wrong to call the strongpoints of the G.a.F. static machine gun companies since they were not that. They were static, and had machine guns, but were organized differently and had artillery as well.
So, none of these companies showed up in the major fortifications of Tripoli, Tobruk, and Bardia. Instead they were positioned along the extending borders with Egypt and Tunisia.
Also, the static ones were numbered 50 or more. Those numbered less than 50 were not static though they defintely still were lacking in terms of mobility.
I won't bother transcribing the location of all of these companies since some aren't known anyway, but Montanari's "The First British Offensive" has sketches with many of their locations.

Also worth noting that I've given up on the project of having a single conclusive Tobruk final OOB. I have released several and I think they all complement one another without replacing.
Here's a listing for what each one refers to:
tobrukComposite:
tobrukDecember: Units of the "Piazza di Tobruch" on the 9th of December, plus naval garrison units
tobrukField:
tobrukFull:
tobrukTiny: The Eastern Sector Only

The Volontari della Libia CC.NN. Battalion and unknown elements of the Sirte Division were together at Martuba on the 1st of December 1940.
At the same time, the XV Anti-Aircraft Group was at Apollonia and a labor battalion of unknown designation was at d'Annunzio, and the 1st Libyan Complement Battalion (a unique unit) was at Benghazi.

If I ever need information about the combat in Yugoslavia, note that the Italians made use of numerous auxiliary elements formed from the local population.
For details about these units, they're at the end of Ness's document about Italian foreign and colonial units on tacticalorganization.com, in a chart for each sponsoring division.

A while ago I attempted to decipher Montanari's 13 January map. I think I didn't do the best job, so here's another attempt.
G.a.F {
    18 20mm
        This is way too many for the G.a.F alone, so I'm guessing that guns given to the fortifications were classified here
        or
        13th Anti-Aircraft Battery, 22nd CAR
        Guardia alla Frontiera Formation Battery
    8 77mm
        246th Battery
        247th Battery
    32 47mm
        This is way too many for the G.a.F alone, so I'm guessing that guns given to the fortifications were classified here
        If that did in fact occur, I don't really have a way to figure out which batteries were and weren't counted in this number
        One more option is that this was a troll typo for 43, which was the actual number of guns there and thus this adds no information whatsoever
        Since I can't think of any good way for the guns to add up to 32 otherwise, this will be the canonical answer in my head from now on.
    11 100mm
        Hard to say, but I believe this was the I/22 Group
    8 75mm
        249th Battery
        Formation Battery "Derna"
    8 149mm
        244th Battery
        245th Battery
}
1 Group 105/28 + 4 pieces
    I Group, 22nd CAR
    Mixed Battery, 22nd CAR
12 Pieces 120/25
    230th Bis Battery
    231st Bis Battery
    242nd Battery
This is a slight improvement over the last time I attempted to go over this map, but it's not too much better.

I missed this previously, but on page 31 of "The First British Offensive", Montanari, relaying a Graziani message, notes that 25th CAR (4 149/13 groups) was meant to be used against the Mersa Matruh defenses.
Only two of the groups, the 105th and 150th, which were complete except for a few missing trucks, were able to land in Behgazi on the 27th of October.
The other two had landed their personnel in Benghazi, but all of their equipment was still stuck in Tripoli aboard the ships there. It seems like the delay that kept them there probably cleared up quickly.

This (the gun breakdown above) sucks though, because the fact that the I/22 Group had just 11 100mm guns implies that an extra 100/17 battery existed somewhere. I don't know where it might be.
Type AS 1940 Divisions had a platoon of 45/5 mortars in each battalion (3 mortars) and a company of 81/14 mortars in each regiment (3 platoons, each 2 squads, each 1 mortar).

In many of my later theories, the 105/28 guns placed as part of the so-called "Mixed" G.a.F. group in the sketches is in fact a section detached from the 22nd CAR.
If this was true, though, the guns were not part of the G.a.F. It's apparent based on another sketch that these guns, part of "4 pezzi", were not part of the G.a.F or of the 22nd CAR at the time.

The mixed engineer units of the G.a.F. were in fact either companies or independent platoons. The companies would have a platoon for each subsector assigned to its parent sector.
In the case of the XXXI Mixed Engineer Unit, this implies that it had just two platoons, one for XXXI/A and one for XXXI/B. They were probably of different sizes, but how can you know.
These platoons were also named according to this system, so their names would've been "A" and "B". It is important to remember that this structure was administrative only and did not apply in combat.

I hate my life. It's spelled "Caposaldo" not "Capisaldo". However, the plural has both of the "o"s replaced by "i"s which creates confusion. I'm still not that familiar with Italian.
Structure of the "Piave" strongpoint:
Training HMG Platoon (Breda 59mm)
Training HMG Platoon (Breda 59mm)
Training LMG Squad (Breda-SAFAT 12.7mm)
Training Rifle Platoon
Training Light Mortar Platoon (45/5)
Training Heavy Mortar Squad (81/14)
Also, Niehorster is back up. That's good news that link rot hasn't worsened by too much.
The Libyan Coastal Battalions had absolutely zero heavy weapons. They did have a few machine guns in their rifle platoons, but they had no mortars or anti-tank guns.

I've been trying to track the origin of the Mixed Battery composed of 2 77/28 guns and a 149/12 gun. This may have been the "Mixed Battery" supposedly part of the 22nd CAR.
At the same time, both the 77/28 and 149/12 were guns used by the G.a.F., as no other 149/12 guns appear anywhere in Africa as part of the regular army.
The G.a.F. in Tripoli was noted having several 149/12 units by Montanari while there was also a battery in Tobruk. While this "battery" managed to only have one gun, it still existed.
This makes it seem like these guns had been in the G.a.F. depots from previously disbanded batteries. Thus in the "december" scenario it's fair to assume the guns could still be found.
But so was the entirety of the 22nd CAR. And I haven't deployed any of those units because they weren't part of the G.a.F. And this opens the door to a thousand more units that I can't all track.
This gives the 22nd CAR the total OOB of:
1st Group (11 100/17)
Composite Battery (4 105/28)
Mixed Training Battery (2 77/28, 1 149/12)
13th Anti-Aircraft Battery (8 20/65)
Provisional Anti-Tank Battery (6 47/32)
This totals 32 guns, a cool number I guess. They are from 7 batteries, a significantly less cool number. In designing the "december" scenario I can't really add these.

I've some information (possibly because of mistakes by me) that shows 120/40 guns in Africa. I don't thinks ever happened, least of all in the "Nembo" battery.
The "Nembo" itself was built not with 120/40 guns but with 120/45. This was a naval model and was effectively never seen on land. The 120/40 itself was generally a pretty normal artillery gun.
Worse, it would also force me into adding in all the cooked random gun elements, like the 3 75/27 with Point 144, the 2 77/28 and 2 47/32 with Point 71, and others.
I can almost certainly be sure, though, that the 77/28 section that was acting in an anti-tank role at Point 71 was probably of the G.a.F., since the regular army used these only in the Libyan units.
Even then, though, it could be a strange semi-organic unit to the 31st Libyan Coastal Battalion, which would honestly be really cool if true but it probably isn't.

I originally thought the extra 3 100/17 guns above the 60 that would be expected (as Montanari lists 63) would've just been random guns assigned to random batteries.
However, I later learned that the G.a.F. had 11 100/17s in early January. This would've been the I/22nd CAR Group, meaning that the +3 guns is not +4 since the I/22nd would be missing one.
I thus have no choice but to accept that there probably was a bonus battery lying around that I've never accounted for anywhere else. I looked around for any groups that seem to be missing a battery.
I found the missing battery in the I Group of the 12th "Sila" Artillery Regiment. I can't know its number but we'll go with the 3rd battery being the one that ended up with the I/26th Group.

The old 340-gun number is a little cursed and in current versions I've often ignored it. But there is at least some historical basis for its existence.
That is, if we ignore the 39 AT guns inside the tanks and add instead the 42 20/65 (or 20mm in general) guns, the total moves from 337 artillery and anti-tank guns to 340.
While Niehorster doesn't include this information, the standard Italian artillery battery consisted of a firing battery (platoon level), along with a headquarters and train.
The firing battery represented about 50% of the strength of the battery as a whole, with 71 out of 128 men. I don't know if the Guardia alla Frontiera followed the same rules.
Ultimately, though, I elected not to downgrade the 105/28 battery of the 22nd CAR down to a firing battery alone. While it's noted as "4 pezzi" in one sketch, Rostagno calls it a full battery.

The 63rd Replacement Battalion managed to last long enough to be destroyed at the Derna position. A "training battalion" of the 115th Infantry Regiment's Depot (maybe the 62nd Replacement Battalion).
In general, the addition of this extra battery has been catalyst for an increase from 144/72 to 145/72. I haven't found any reasonable way to reduce this except by blowing up the "Piave" company.

The 2 77/28 guns at Point 71 are not only mentioned in Montanari's map. Their existence is confirmed by a message from Pitassi Manella calling for them to fire on the troops attacking his headquarters.
The Free French troops besieging Tobruk, were, according to Montanari, placed under the command of the 7th Support Group. No 7th Armoured Division information yet supports this.

Attempting to build a setup for the AT guns of the western sector.
They included: 18 20/65, 20 47/32, 13 65/17
Sector West - 51 AT Guns
    Subsector A - 22 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Hagfet Umm Haleiga - 5 AT Guns (3 20/65, 2 47/32)
        Strongpoint Sidi Cheiralla - 5 AT Guns (3 20/65, 2 47/32)
        Strongpoint Bir el Faras - 6 AT Guns (2 20/65, 2 47/32, 2 65/17)
        Strongpoint Bir eg Giasc - 6 AT Guns (2 20/65, 2 47/32, 2 65/17)
    Subsector B - 19 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Bir el Medauuar - 7 AT Guns (3 20/65, 2 47/32, 2 65/17)
        Strongpoint Ras el Medauuar - 6 AT Guns (3 20/65, 2 47/32, 1 65/17)
        Strongpoint Ras es Sehel - 6 AT Guns (2 20/65, 2 47/32, 2 65/17)
    Subsector C - 10 AT Guns
        Strongpoint Es Sehel - 3 AT Guns (2 47/32, 1 65/17)
        Strongpoint Bir el Meclub - 4 AT Guns (2 47/32, 2 65/17)
        Strongpoint Umm Cuheil - 3 AT Guns (2 47/32, 1 65/17)

While some Bersaglieri units might have had a decent amount of machine guns or maybe even some extra, there were no units of a special MG TOE. I was wrong about this when I thought the 11th Battalion had this.

The 65/17 was used as a standard mountain gun in World War I. By the second war, the 75/13, an Austro-Hungarian weapon, had replaced it in the mountain infantry support role.
This is why the 65/17 became an infantry gun, replacing the 37/10 (of M11/39 fame) which had evidently become two weak and obsolete for use in a modern war, though the 65/17 was near obsolete as well.

According to Montanari's maps of Crusader, Amseat was not a single place, but rather, a geographical feature, probably a ridge. This may be why I could never find its precise location.
The Giovani Fascisti regiment had a 47/32 anti-tank company and 81/41 mortar company formed for it prior to Crusader. I think these units would've been with the regiment/battalion group at Bir el Gubi.
In my (reduced) world, the Raggruppamento Artiglieria "Sirte" was formed from reforming the remnants of the G.a.F. artillery groups, specifically the 6th and 7th Groups.
Since these groups would've lost all of their guns in Compass, they would need to be replenished with three fresh artillery batteries each. These would probably be 75/27 or 77/28 groups left by other G.a.F.
Since in my world these would've been from the Tobruk Fortress and not from the G.a.F. on the Tunisian border (Nalut-Zuara sector), so this would be 77/28 guns (there were no 75/27 in Tripoli).

Here's my attempt to track the reorganization of the Tripoli G.a.F.:
Original Fortress Tripoli (10 June 1940)
    33rd Raggruppamento (6/16)
    34th Raggruppamento (6/15)
    35th Raggruppamento (3/9)
    Southeast Raggruppamento (2/6)
Restructured (5 April 1941)
    330th Raggruppamento (4/12)
        332nd Group (2 149/12, 1 210/8, 1 77/28)
        333rd Group (3 149/35)
        334th Group (3 77/28)
        342nd Group (2 77/28)
    340th Raggruppamento (4/10)
        335th Group (3 149/12) (823, 835, 852)
        343rd Group (2 77/28)
        344th Group (3 77/28)
        5th Group (2 105/28)
    350th Raggruppamento (4/9)
        341st Group (2 149/35)
        345th Group (2 120/25) (847, 850)
        351st Group (2 77/28)
        1st Group (2 120/35, 1 100/17)
    Eastern Coastal Sector
        7th Group (2 77/28, 1 149/12)
        352nd Group (2 77/28) (Dissolved 31 July 1941)
    300th Raggruppamento (3 Groups)
    310th Raggruppamento (4 Groups)
    320th Raggruppamento (3 Groups)
    The Libyan Sahara also had four 77/28 batteries
    (These groups share the numbers of the units destroyed in Bardia and Tobruk. They are highly historically questionable.)
    (But ohw they got here is likely explained by the next restructuring OOB which puts the in Tripoli)
Restructured Again (1 December 1941)
    33rd Coverage Sector (Zanzur)
        33rd/A Subsector (Sidi Bilal)
        33rd/B Subsector (Castel Lupini)
        33rd/C Subsector (Castel Sottocasa)
    34th Coverage Sector (Bir ben Milad)
        34th/A Subsector (Bir ben Milad)
        34th/B Subsector (Km 30.5 per Homs)
    35th Coverage Sector (Castel Benito)
        35th/A Subsector (Castel Benito)
        35th/B Subsector (Bir Langar)
        35th/C Subsector (Suani ben Adem)
    35th Infantry Battalion G.a.F. (El Hagiarsa) (Coastal Defense)
    30th Coastal Artillery Raggruppamento (Unknown Subelements)
    31st Coastal Artillery Raggruppamento (Unknown Subelements)
    34th Coastal Artillery Raggruppamento (Unknown Subelements)
    (It's possible that all three of these regiments were wiped out, since we know the 340th Group was lost in Crusader)
    330th Artillery Raggruppamento (Bir Zarug)
        332nd Group (
            821 of 77/28,
            822, 834 of 75/27,
            861, 868 of 100/17
        ) (Km 32 Per Homs)
    350th Artillery Raggruppamento (Castel Benito)
        335th Group (823, 835, 852 of 149/12) (Suani ben Adem)
        (The 823rd Group had been removed or destroyed by the 23rd of December)
        345th Group (847, 850 of 120/25) (Castel Sait)
        353rd Group (849, 851, 859 of 120/25) (Bir Tobraz)
    34rd Mixed Engineer Battalion
        Artieri Company
        Signals Company
        Firefighting Company
Based on this information, I can't really know anything about the 283rd and 284th Groups that were sent with the Sabratha Division.
Two groups with these numbers do show up with the 280th Raggruppamento on the 23rd of December (Ascoli page 361), but both of them are given 77/28 guns so they probably aren't the same.

The 580th Reconaissance Company (sometimes incorrectly called a battalion) had a pioneer platoon, armored car platoon, and anti-tank platoon. This was a pretty abnormal organization.
Other than the 200th and 361st Light Infantry Regiments, Menny during Gazala had the 533rd Coastal Artillery Battalion, the 3rd Company of the 523rd Coastal Artillery Battalion, and the 612th Flak Battalion.
These two coastal artillery battalions were two of four that Rommel's corps had received. All were armed with captured 15cm French guns and rarely if ever show up in the narrative.

Some claim that the two (200th and 361st) infantry regiments also had engineer companies, but I find this hard to believe. There were no such spare engineer companies lying around in the Afrika Korps.
The panzergrenadier regiments of the 15th and 21st Panzer Divsiions did have a 14th engineer company, but they had three battalions and were the only infantry regiments in their divisions.
On the other hand, the 90th Light Division was already short of engineers with only the weak 900th Pioneer Battalion and no loose ones that could be grabbed up.

The 3rd Indian Motor Brigade was supported during Sonnenblume by a company from the 2/3rd Australian Anti-Tank Regiment and the 35th Field Squadron, Royal Engineers.

For the Polish Independent Carpathian Brigade, unsurprisingly, Polish Wikipedia has a lot more detail about its sub-elements and their commanders than English Wikipedia does.
It had the following exact structure, all taken from Polish Wikipedia:
Brigade Headquarters
Note: the "Carpathian" designation wasn't just a name, the units did actually have a light mountain disposition
    Brigade Infantry Command - Walenty Peszek (Dowództwo Piechoty Brygady)
        1st Carpathian Rifle Battalion (1st-4th Companies)
        2nd Carpathian Rifle Battalion (1st-4th Companies)
        3rd Carpathian Rifle Battalion (1st-4th Companies)
            4th Company - Czesław Hanus
    Independent Heavy Machine Gun Company - Malik Somchjanc (Samodzielna Kompania Ciężkich Karabinów Maszynowych)
    Carpathian Artillery Regiment - Stanisław Gliwicz
        1st Light Artillery Squadron - Juliusz Możdżeń (I Dywizjon Artylerii Lekkiej) (3 Batteries of 4 Guns Each)
        2nd Heavy Artillery Squadron - Franciszek Kikal (II Dywizjon Artylerii Ciężkiej) (3 Batteries of 4 Guns Each)
        3rd Horse Artillery Squadron - Emil Sikorski (III Dywizjon Artylerii Konnej) (3 Batteries of 4 Guns Each)
        Note: these different squadron names didn't actually mean anything
        Note: the batteries were numbered 1-9
        Note: under Polish systems, this would've been considered a regiment-level unit, and while the British would say the same, in their terminology that's a battalion
    Carpathian Anti-Tank Artillery Squadron - Cieszkowski (Karpacki Dywizjon Artylerii Przeciwpancernej)
        Note: this actually had subordinate batteries numbered 1-4, so it was a regiment-level unit by Polish standards and company-level by British standards
        Note: each of those batteries was armed with 4 guns, so they were troop-level by British standards, and this unit was formed in June 1941
    Carpathian Uhlans Regiment (Motorized acting as reconaissance)
        1st Squadron - Stanisław Kałusowski
        2nd Squadron - Antoni Smodlibowski
        3rd Squadron - Antoni Kawecki
    Sapper Squad (Oddział Saperów) - Władysław Rakowski (Company Size)
    Total: 27 Companies

The 56th Independent Anti-Air Group was probably the largest battalion-level unit I've seen in the Italian Army, with 7 mobile and 14 static batteries.
Similarly, the G.a.F. Coverage Sector "Dodecaneso" had 18 static machine gun companies, each of which was functionally independent and guarded various islands.

According to the "History of the Artillery", the reason for the confusing and inconsistent number of naval batteries at Tobruk is that different authors and categorizations are counting differently.
Only 7 batteries were of an anti-ship nature, of the total 11 that were to defend the harbor and its surroundins. Sometimes the San Giorgio is counted in these numbers as well.
I would assume the batteries that couldn't fire on ships were the ones that were inland: Tordo, Toro, Pilastrino, and Sidi Mahmud, since how would they hit a ship anyway?
I don't think any of the fortifications surrounding the town ever even had more than one anti-tank gun. That may have been a mistake on the part of the British/Italian mapper.
The ones facing the Wadi es Sehel also supposedly lacked anti-tank guns, since that area wasn't considered passable to tanks in the first place. The British map also got this wrong.
The map from "The Operations in North Africa" also supports this, as no anti-tank ditch or mines are marked in that area and that would probably imply a lack of anti-tank weaponry as a whole.
Each fortification initially also had two machine guns. We know this was still the case by the time the actual attack occurred since the six positions that fell first had 12 MGs between them.
This book also makes a different mistake, however, in taking Montanari's maps (or the sources he used) literally. When half a group's area is marked as lost, that doesn't mean exactly half of it was lost.
More likely, either all of it was lost as it was completely overrun, or the entire group managed to survive, for now at least. It wouldn't make sense for the Australians to just leave the rest alone.

He also notes that 22 47/32 guns out of the 43 total were taken from the "artillery magazine" which may refer to the depots of the G.a.F. or from the strongpoints.
I'll go over this some more two paragraphs later once I finish reading it. But this does annoy me since it certainly isn't the same number I had previously.
The 160 men that Vietina had to defend the port did not include the 3rd Battalion, 62nd Replacement Battalion. The grammar Montanari uses in his two books are slightly different on this.

Also, whichever guy on Wikipedia wrote that the 3rd Battalion, 70th Infantry Regiment defended the second-line positions misread the book.
In reality, this was the 2nd Battalion, 70th Infantry Regiment and it was only responsible for defending one position, that of Pilastrino, alongside the 61st Machine Gun Battalion.
The 3rd Battalion, 69th Infantry Regiment faced toward Bardia as part of the El Adem Crossroads position, while the elements of the 4th Tank Infantry Regiment mostly faced southward toward El Adem.
The Bejad position with the 64th Replacement Battalion is noted as containing only a single platoon of machine guns and no mortars, rather than the entire support weapons company.
The 3rd Battalion, 69th Infantry Regiment was also the one that had the 76/40 gun with it. I guess since the dug-in tanks had weak 37/10 guns of their own, they didn't need extra anit-tank support.

Unlike many other nations, the divisions of the Italian Army did not have any kind of brigade headquarters inside them (such as an infantry, tank, or artillery command).
To be fair, these divisions were almost brigade-sized anyway, so them having an additional brigade headquarters wouldn't have resulted in much of a benefit to the command structure anyway.
On page 293 of "The Operations", which discusses the distribution of spare guns found in the Tobruk stores, Montanari links to note 165. It was actually quite difficult to find this.
Those units found in the stores were:
254 MGs (Fiat 35), 41 45/5 Mortars, 12 81/14 Mortars
22 47/32 AT Guns, 18 Guns "From 65/17 to 149/35" (not very helpful, but I'll try to decipher that)
20 77mm MGs, 30 127mm MGs (taken from inoperable aircraft, ineffective in the ground role but used anyway)
Here's my guess as to where the 22 47/32 guns went:
16 Strongpoints
4 Rapid Unit
2 Point 71
Here's my guess to the identity of the 18 guns:
5 65/17 (Provisional Battery)
3 75/27 (Point 144)
3 76/30 (Vittoria Battery)
2 77/28 (Point 71)
4 105/28 (Mixed Battery)
1 149/35 (Vittoria Battery / Unknown)

Other assorted minor mistakes I made:
Again, there was no 31st Regiment of G.a.F. Artillery, only a 31st Raggruppamento. The groups were actually formed by the 5th-7th G.a.F. Artillery Regiment depots.
The 105th Group had a 10th Battery and I just apparently forgot all about this and numbered them 1-3 instead.

I'm also going to make a second attempt to count heavy weapons companies to see if any are missing. I want to know the origin of the troops in the "Piave" strongpoint.
A standard heavy weapons company had two MG platoons, each armed with 4 MGs. The MG Battalion had three companies with four platoons, each 4 MGs.
So, the entire Tobruk garrison, not counting the G.a.F., had:
4/69th Infantry Regiment - 8 MGs
    Rapid Unit
8/69th Infantry Regiment - 8 MGs
    Eastern Sector Interval Troops
12/69th Infantry Regiment - 8 MGs
    Strongpoint Sidi Mahmud/Bivio El Adem
4/70th Infantry Regiment - 8 MGs
    Strongpoint Point 144
8/70th Infantry Regiment - 8 MGs
    Strongpoint Pilastrino
12/70th Infantry Regiment - 8 MGs
    Strongpoint Pilastrino
1/61st Machine Gun Battalion - 16 MGs
    Strongpoint Bejad (4 + 4 Reinforcement)
    Strongpoint Bivio El Adem
2/61st Machine Gun Battalion - 16 MGs
    Western Sector Strongpoints
3/61st Machine Gun Battalion - 16 MGs
    Western Sector Strongpoints
4/61st Replacement Battalion - 8 MGs
    Strongpoint Gabr el Abd
4/64th Replacement Battalion - 8 MGs
    Point 71
Total: 112 MGs
Also, though, if 254 Fiat 35 guns were just found in the warehouse, this kinda makes this whole point irrelevant. Unlucky. I guess we'll just assume all of them were in the fortifications?

Positions (Ignoring 77mm and 127mm guns taken from inoperable aircraft):
Bejad: 1 Platoon (8 MGs)
Sidi Mahmud (III/69): 8MGs
Bivio El Adem: 12 MGs

Western Sector Strongpoints: 2 Companies of the 61st Machine Gun Battalion + 18 MGs
Piave: 2 Platoons
Point 144: 8 MGs
Pilastrino: 12/70th Infantry Regiment (8 MGs) + 8 MGs
Gabr el Abd: 4/61st Replacement Battalion
Point 71: 8 MGs
Rapid Unit: 2 Platoons

Based on the above analysis, I will assume that the elements at the "Piave" strongpoint were distinct training units "di formazione" rather than elements from the Replacement Battalions "complementi".
So, unless I really need to, no changes in this matter will occur. Otherwise, I don't understand how they were able to find a random rifle platoon there that wasn't mentioned anywhere else.

The Sirte Division's commander in early 1939 was Eduardo Quarra Sito. He then became commander of the Tripoli Fortress which he stayed iin until November 1941.
At that point, Tripoli's command was instead given to Alberto Mannerini, and Quarra Sito would go on to command some assorted infantry divisions before retiring in 1943.

Attempt 2:
4/69th Infantry Regiment - 8 MGs
    Rapid Unit
8/69th Infantry Regiment - 8 MGs
    Strongpoint Bivio El Adem
12/69th Infantry Regiment - 8 MGs
    Strongpoint Sidi Mahmud
4/70th Infantry Regiment - 8 MGs
    Strongpoint Point 144
8/70th Infantry Regiment - 8 MGs
    Point 71
12/70th Infantry Regiment - 8 MGs
    Strongpoint Pilastrino
1/61st Machine Gun Battalion - 16 MGs
    Strongpoint Pilastrino
    Note: Pilastrino only has 8 additional MGs, so this seems a bit off. If I had to guess, the rest of them were in the western sector.
2/61st Machine Gun Battalion - 16 MGs
    Western Sector Strongpoints
3/61st Machine Gun Battalion - 16 MGs
    Western Sector Strongpoints
4/61st Replacement Battalion - 8 MGs
    Strongpoint Gabr el Abd
4/64th Replacement Battalion - 8 MGs
    Strongpoint Piave

Another Attempt 2:
1 65/17 (Provisional Battery?)
3 75/27 (Point 144)
3 76/30 (Vittoria Battery)
4 77/28 (Point 71, Formation Battery)
4 105/28 (Mixed Battery)
1 149/12 (Formation Battery)
1 149/35 (Vittoria Battery/Unknown)
Total: 20
1 76/40 (Sidi Mahmud) (Not counted as it was in the naval stores)

Somewhere I've seen claims that the San Giorgio had 147mm guns rather than 254mm guns. I have no idea where this claim originated but it's almost certainly a mistake and can be ignored.

Some things to say about the strength of blackshirt units:
Volontari della Libia: About 658 men (21 officers, 36 NCOs)
Libyan Legionary Battalion: 734 men (29 officers, 27 NCOs)

Also, still no information on the 65/17 battery that the 55th Artillery Regiment had. Even its numbers don't help, since at least 1 of its 5 guns came from the Tobruk depot rather than being organic.
Thus the actual quantity of guns that this battery has is unknown but is probably just 4, and thus there's no real way to know where it came from.
But I did find something of value. On page 242 of "History of the Artillery", the "23 Marzo" Division and the XXIII Corps each left behind a 65/17 battery. Maybe it's one of these that stayed in Tobruk?
The "23 Marzo" Division had the 15th and 16th batteries from the Savona Division (to be replaced with the 266th and 267th by Crusader). It could be one of these, but can I find anything to differentiate them?
It was probably the 15th, though, since the other battery, numerically at least, would have a high chance of being deployed to the 2nd Blackshirt Division's artillery rather than the 1st "23 Marzo"'s.
There was also a weird 270th 65/17 battery that was either almost entirely or truly entirely lost in combat at Sidi Barrani. Maybe this was a G.a.F. unit?
Further, the Cirene Division initially had four batteries of 65/17, two organic and two reinforcement, the 69th and 70th coming from the Sirte Division. But once it reached Sofafi, it had only three.

It seems that by the Second Battle of El Alamein, the 15th Panzer Division's 33rd Artillery Regiment's 3rd Battalion no longer had 3 batteries of heavy guns. Rather only two of its batteries were heavy.
I can't implement this, though, since I don't know when this change occurred and it's so minor that researching this would be fairly difficult, even though the Germans are better documented.

The Sirte Division surrendered with about 200 trucks lying around. These were probably enough to motorize the mobile reserve of the Tobruk fortress but not much else.
Interestingly, the division had many more trucks earlier, hence why it was able to make the journey from the Tunisian border to Tobruk. There, most of the trucks were stripped and given to the 1st Blackshirt Battalion.

Let's talk about the infantry gun units that ended up with the Sabratha Division when it defended the Derna line. It should've had the 85th and 86th batteries at normal formation.
Montanari's maps show the following companies: 251st, 254th, 255th, 85th (Motorized). Note the curious lack of an 86th company, perhaps it had made it all the way to Tobruk?

Also finally I'm pretty sure that "di Formazione" doesn't necessarily mean a training unit. It can also just mean an ad-hoc unit in general.
Thus the force at the "Piave" strongpoint probably did not come from training at the depots. Instead, it was just a jumble of platoons and squads of assorted support weapons elements.

Several times I've had doubts about the amount of G.a.F. infantry or strongpoints that were taken forward to replenish the 30th/B Coverage Sector (likely taking the 32nd Coverage Sector HQ with them).
But this shouldn't be the case. Castagna says both that the original garrisons consisted of four companies of the 150th Blackshirt Battalion and alter has four G.a.F. companies to add to his Libyan units.
He later reorganized the defensive formation, as by this time many of his Libyan units had shrunk considerably from losses and desertions. Now there were just four strongpoints, each of which had a G.a.F. company.

Based on forum discussion about the tanks in Operation Compass, I've gained some information but nothing that I conclusively need. Here's what I have:
Earlier, the I Medium Tank Battalion had 40 tanks in three companies. Two of the companies were in Tobruk.
It moved to Tobruk by orad on the 13th of July 1940 and by the 17th of December, it had just 5 effective tanks at Gazala with the rest, immobilized, left in Tobruk.
The 39 immobilized tanks and the personnel that hadn't been sent to Bengasi that formed it at Tobruk came from both the 1st and 2nd Medium Tank Battalions.
In this case, it may make sense for me to apply the composite company formation to these just like I did for the 63rd.
The parts of the 63rd Light Tank Battalion that weren't at Tobruk were almost entirely destroyed at Tishdida which presumably is near Buq Buq.

While the 75/46 gun used a pretty common (75mm) caliber and was attempting to be produced, and in Tobruk it was used in a sort of anti-tank role, anti-tank ammunition for them was not produced until 1942.
I do find this a bit weird, though, since many 75/27 or 77/28 guns were also being used in an anti-tank role. It seems possible but very stupid if none of these had any anti-tank ammo either.

Unlike "The First British Offensive", the later published "The Operations in North Africa" series does actually have indexes (indices?) for units rather than just random stuff, though by now they are obsolete due to ctrl+F.
Worse, even if they were at least somewhat useful in finding stuff, all they tell me is that everything the book has on the topics I care about I have already seen, and that it has nothing new to offer.

I'm now reading through the diaries of a Phil who was in the 2/7th Australian Battalion and was at Tobruk. Here's some things that he notes (though they're probably not the most reliable):
The artillery at Tobruk was not only greater in quantity than in Bardia but was more accurate and aggressive, maybe due to Pitassi Manella's leadership.
The Italians built several large rock or concrete structures that were left around in the desert. It was thought these were used for rangefinding and the Australians couldn't destroy them.
His company was only given 5 posts to capture and then it was placed in reserve. Those were B1-B5, which aren't mentioned according to Italian maps so are probably Australian-given designations.
The last post they went to (probably not one they were assigned to capture) was very impressively built into the side of a wadi with deeply concealed weapons emplacements.
Each Italian anti-aircraft gun (20/6) used differently-colored tracer ammunition to track its shots, making them quite pretty against the night sky.

When Tobruk fell, to the Axis this time, the 25th Field Regiment had the 12th/25th, 31st/58th, and 287th Batteries (note that 12/25 and 31/58 are misrepresented by TIK) deployed on the 2nd line around King's Cross.
Note that only the first 2 batteries, both composite in nature, were from the regiment. The 287th Battery came from the 124th (Northumbrian) Field Regiment from the 50th Division.

Doing a bit of reading from Montanari's writing on the later stages of the desert war, more specifically "The Second Italo-German Counteroffensive" which covers the time between Crusader's end and September 1942.
Here's what I've gained from that:
By this point, the Trieste Division had just 4732 men left, plus 1198 drivers. No wonder that its regiments were reduced to a strength of four companies each, in two battalions.
The original AS 42 infantry division was meant to do the same with its infantry, having a standard strength of either 3373 or 3704 men (depending on source) and 8 infantry companies.
It was hoped that eventually reinforcements would be fed into the divisions to bring their battalions back up to four companies each and these replacement companies began forming in Italy.
The Trento Division in the spring of 1942 was badly understrength in artillery, with its four groups having just two batteries apiece.
The other divisions varied significantly and none met the target strength of 931 men manning 2 75/27 and 1 100/17 groups of two batteries. In June the third battery was readded as a goal.

It also includes a rare OOB for Panzerarmee Afrika on the 20th of January 1942. Here it is:
Army Troops
    Kampfgruppe Marcks
        88mm Battery (3 Guns)
        Group "Pardi" (3 Unknown Batteries, 1 20/65 Battery)
        605th Anti-Tank Battalion
            Signals Platoon
            "Semovente" Battery (6 76.2mm) (Probably the "Diana")
            2 Companies (Each 7 47mm and 3 Submachine Guns)
        104th Motorized Infantry Regiment
            1st Battalion, 155th Infantry Regiment (4 Companies and 4 76.2mm Guns)
            2nd Battalion, 155th Infantry Regiment (4 Companies, 1 Heavy Company, 10 76.2mm Guns)
            1 Heavy Company With 75mm Guns
            2nd Battalion, 104th Infantry Regiment (4 Companies, 1 Heavy Company)
    104th Artillery Command
        408th Artillery Battalion
            1 210mm Mortar Battery (2 Guns)
            2 105mm Howitzer Batteries (7 Guns Total)
            1 105/28 Battery (Italian)
        Kampfgruppe Nord
            523rd Battalion
                1 170mm Battery
                2 150mm Batteries
            533rd Battalion
                2 100mm Batteries
                Command battery
            11th Observation Battalion
                Flash Detection Battery
                Sound-Ranging Battery
        221st Artillery Regiment
            326th Observation Battery
            2nd Battalion, 115th Artillery Regiment
                1 210mm Battery
            528th Battalion
                1 170mm Battery
                2 Motorized 105mm Howitzer Batteries (7 Guns Total)
    Anti-Aircraft Kampfgruppe Hecht (135th Motorized Artillery Regiment)
        114th Battalion
            1 20mm Battery (12 Guns)
            1 50mm Battery (8 Guns)
            3 88mm Batteries (9 Guns Total) (Each With a 20mm Section)
        1st Battalion, 33rd Anti-Aircraft (Flak) Regiment
            2 20mm Batteries (16 Guns Total)
        1st Battalion, 18th Anti-Aircraft (Flak) Regiment
            2 20mm Batteries
            2 88mm Batteries
        Note: these 20mm guns are not the Italian 20/65 but the German 2cm Flak 30 or 38
    900th Engineer Battalion (2 Companies)
    6 Radio Stations, 1 Signals Company
Deutsches Afrika Korps
    Assigned Army Units
        475th Signals Battalion
        580th Reconaissance Company
        1 20mm Battery (Tracked Vehicles)
        1 Anti-Tank Company
        1 Armored Car Company
        1 Motorized Reconaissance Company
        606th Anti-Aircraft (Flak) Battalion
        3 50mm Companies (Probably PAK 38) (Tracked Vehicles)
    15th Panzer Division
        General Staff + Command Company (Command Platoon, Motorcycle Platoon (Kradmelde?), MP Section, Mapping Section)
        8th Panzer Regiment
            Command Company (Signals Company, Light Tank Company)
            Workstation
            2 Panzer Battalions, Each
                Command Company
                3 Light Tank Companies
                1 Medium Tank Company
        15th Infantry Brigade
            200th Motorized Infantry Regiment
                Signals Platoon
                Motorcycle Platoon
                15th Motorcycle Battalion
                    1 Heavy Motorized Company
                    1 Machine Gun Company
                    3 Motorcycle Companies
                2nd Motorized Machine Gun Battalion
                    1 Heavy Comapny
                    3 Machine Gun Companies
                    1 75mm Support Battery (PAK 40?)
            115th Infantry Regiment
                Command Company
                    Signals Platoon
                    Engineer Platoon
                    Motorcycle Platoon
                    Anti-Tank Platoon
                2 Infantry Battalions, Each
                    4 Infantry Companies
                    1 Heavy Company
        33rd Motorized Artillery Regiment
            2 105mm Howitzer Battalions (3 Batteries Each)
            1 Mixed Battalion
                105mm Battery
                2 150mm Batteries
        33rd Reconaissance Battalion
            Signals Platoon
            2 Armored Car Companies
            1 Heavy Motorized Company (1 Engineer Platoon, 2 Anti-Tank Platoons)
            1 Motorcycle Company
        33rd Anti-Tank Battalion (3 Companies)
        33rd Engineer Battalion (3 Companies)
        Signals Battalion
            1 Signals Company
            1 Radio Company
        33rd Replacement Battalion (3 Companies)
        Divisional Services
    21st Panzer Division
        General Staff + Command Company (Command Platoon, Motorcycle Platoon (Kradmelde?), MP Section, Mapping Section)
        5th Panzer Regiment
            Command Company (Signals Company, 2 Light Tank Platoons)
            Repair Company
            2 Panzer Battalions, Each
                Command Company (With 1 Light Tank Platoon)
                3 Light Tank Companies
                1 Medium Tank Company
        8th Motorized Machine Gun Battalion
            Command Company (Signals Paltoon, 2 Motorcycle Platoons)
            4 Machine Gun Companies
            1 Anti-Tank Company
        155th Motorized Artillery Regiment
            2 105mm Howitzer Battalions (3 Batteries Each)
            1 Mixed Battalion
                105mm Battery
                2 150mm Batteries
        3rd Reconaissance Battalion
            2 Armored Car Companies
            1 Heavy Motorized Company (1 Engineer Platoon, 2 Anti-Tank Platoons)
            1 Motorcycle Company
        39th Anti-Tank Battalion (3 Companies)
        200th Engineer Battalion (3 Companies)
        200th Signals Battalion
            1 Signals Company
            1 Radio Company
        200th Replacement Battalion (4 Companies)
        Divisional Services
    90th Light "Afrika" Division
        General Staff + Command Company (Command Platoon, Motorcycle Platoon (Kradmelde?), MP Section, Mapping Section)
        228th Regiment (ex Daumiller) (This is probably the 288th Sonderverband)
            3 20mm Platoons
            2 Engineer Companies
            1 Company With 2 47mm Platoons (6 Guns)
            1 Anti-Tank Company
        Kampfgruppe Burchardt
            3 Companies (Each 18 SMGs, 2 LMGs, 3 45mm Mortars, 1 81mm Mortar)
            1 Machine Gun Company (8 HMGs, 4 81mm Mortars, 4 Anti-Tank Rifles)
            1 Anti-Tank Company (8 37mm Guns, 3 47mm Guns)
            1 75mm Battery
            1 Engineer Platoon
            Workstation
        1 20mm Battery (6 Guns)
        368th Anti-Aircraft (Flak) and Anti-Tank Battalion
            1st Unit: 4 SMGs, 3 LMGs, 4 37mm Guns
            2nd Unit: 11 SMGs
            3rd Unit: 4 SMGs, 7 20mm Guns
            Note: I've never even heard of this unit, maybe it was part of the Sonderverband?
        361st Infantry Regiment
            Battalion
                Command Company (1 81mm Mortar, 1 37mm Gun, 1 Anti-Tank Rifle, 2 LMGs)
                2 Companies (Each 18 SMGs, 2 LMGs, 4 Light AT Rifles, 2 Heavy AT Rifles, 1 37mm Gun)
            Battalion
                Company (14 SMGs, 2 MGs, 3 Light AT Rifles, 1 Heavy AT Rifle, 1 37mm Gun)
                Company (14 SMGs, 2 MGs,s 3 Light AT Rifles)
                Company (6 37mm Guns, 2 47mm Guns, 4 81mm Mortar)
            Battalion
                Company (9 SMGs, 2 LMGs, 3 Light AT Rifles, 1 Heavy AT Rifle, 3 37mm Guns, 2 81mm Mortars)
                Company (9 SMGs, 2 LMGs, 3 Light AT Rifles, 1 Heavy AT Rifle, 8 37mm Guns, 1 81mm Mortars, 1 47mm Guns)
                Company (4 SMGs, 2 LMGs, 1 Light AT Rifles, 1 Heavy AT Rifle, 3 37mm Guns, 1 81mm Mortars)
        155th Motorized Infantry Regiment (to Kampfgruppe Marcks)

Another OOB included is for the Sabratha Division on the 1st of February 1942. Here it is:
Organic Elements
    Divisional Command
        Commander: Brigader General Mario Soldarelli
        Chief of Staff: Lieutenant Colonel S. M. Converti
        General Staff
        Headquarters
            105th Mixed Carabinieri Section
            260th Post Office
    85th Infantry Regiment
        Command
        2 Battalions
        85th 81/14 Company
    86th Infantry Regiment
        Command
        2 Battalions
        86th 81/14 Company
    Raggruppamento Artiglieria
        Command
        283rd Group of 75/27 (3 Batteries)
        284th Group of 75/27 (2 Batteries)
    60th Mixed Engineer Battalion
    Divisional Services
Reinforcements
    "San Marco" Marine Battalion
    Raggruppamento Giovani Fascisti
    340th 65/17 Battery
    1 Battery, 18th 88/56 Group
    2 Batteries, 42nd 75/50 Group
    14th 76/30 Battery
    32nd Guastatori Battalion

Changes to be made:
AS 1942 division reorganizations
III/33rd Artillery Regiment was mixed
317th Group of 75/27 had just 2 batteries

Unrelated, but Gotti commanded the Trento Division into February 1942 so he should be named in the Rommel's Second Offensive scenario.
The XXI Corps during Gazala, responsible for defending the sector from the coast to Sidi Breghisc, was reinforced by a German Tank Battalion.

The Afrika Division was not actually completedly inserted into the Tobruk siege lines at the start of Crusader. Rommel made this decision while literally under attack.
It just goes to show how poorly he handled the battle at its outset, and resulted in the loss of II./IR 255 since it wasn't fully prepared for its defense. Good thing the British were just as bad!

I think it's notable that the general defensive structure that the Italians used to defend Tobruk was almost entirely replicated by the British in the 2nd siege. Here's how similar they were:
2nd South African Division (HQ Between Fort Solaro and Gabr el Abd)*
    Eastern Sector (11th Indian Infantry Brigade) (HQ Sidi Mahmud)*
        (Subsector A)
            2nd/7th Gurkha Rifles (Strongpoints Sidi Daud, Zeitun)
            2nd/5th Mahratta Light Infantry (Strongpoints Bir Junes, Suesi)
        (Subsector B)
            2nd Cameron Hihglanders (Strongpoint Dahar el Azazi, Half of Bir Umm Haleiga)
            Beer Group (Half of Strongpoint Bir Umm Haleiga)
    Western Sector (4th South African Brigade) (HQ Fort Pilastrino)*
        (Subsector C)
            Kaffrarian Rifles
        (Subsector D)
            Blake Group (Strongpoint Bir el Medauuar)
            Umvoti Mounted Rifles (Strongpoint Ras el Medauuar)
            2nd Royal Durban Light Infantry (Ras es Sehel)
    Northern Sector (6th South African Brigade) (HQ Ras bel Ghemel)
        (Subsector E)
            2nd Transvaal Scottish (Strongpoint Es Sehel)
            2nd South African Police Battalion (Strongpoints Bir el Meclub, Umm Cuheil)
        (Coastal Sector)
            1st South African Police Battalion
* - Parallel to the Italian plan

I also intend to rebuild the Siege of Tobruk event since it's now severley outdated. Here's the changes to make:
Source 1: this ugly map https://cove.army.gov.au/article/80-years-remembering-rats-tobruk
Source 2: Montanari, "The First Italo-German Counteroffensive in North Africa"
Restructure the artillery. In the historical siege there were 3 RHA Field Regiments and 1 RA Field Regiment that were spread mostly evenly across the fortress.
3rd Armoured Brigade had: 1 Regiment of Armoured Cars, 1 Composite Light Tank Regiment, 1 Composite Cruiser Tank Regiment, 1 Infantry Tank Troop
Trento Division OOB, attacking strongpoints between the strongpoints from Bir Junes to Zeitun:
7th Berasglieri Regiment
    8th Bersaglieri Battalion
    10th Bersaglieri Battalion
    11th Bersaglieri Battalion
    7th Bersaglieri Anti-Tank Company
2 Infantry Battalions
    2nd Battalion, 61st Infantry Regiment
    1st Battalion, 62nd Infantry Regiment
2 Machine Gun Companies
    Unknown numbers, from the 551st Machine Gun Battalion
2 47/32 Companies
    104th Battery
    106th Battery
1.5 20/65 Batteries
    Irrelevant
2 Groups of 2 Batteries of 75/27
    3rd Group
    4th Group

Also, I completely trolled myself by not realising sooner that all the groups in the motorized divisions had 2 batteries each. Time for a ton of changes...

Here's a bonus number provided by Montanari - 52 guns were facing south (Group Tramontin?)
    2nd Group, 43rd Artillery Regiment (12 75/27)
    105th Group, 25th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento (12 149/13)
    3rd Group, 55th Artillery Regiment (12 75/27)
    130th Group, 25th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento (12 149/13)
    2nd Battery, 15th Anti-Aircraft Group (4 75/46)

Elements of the 14th Air Brigade "Rex" were stuck in Tobruk and lost, but the headquarters were not there, and in fact it doesn't seem any administrative elements were actually in the base.
Instead, by the 1st of April 1941, the brigade was still active, now based in Tripoli, with four groups of squadrons assigned to it, with a total of 123 aircraft.
Also on the 1st of April 1941, Fortress Tripoli had a total strength of 7936 men, 361 officers, and 474 NCOs for 8771 personnel total. I believe by this point much of it had already been reorganized out.
Back on the 20th of February, it was slightly weaker, actually, with 7652 men, 343 officers, and 421 NCOs for 8416 personnel total. I don't really get how this happened, where did the 355 men come from?

Also, yes, the carabinieri sections were platoon-sized. The Ariete Division had two when it arrived in Africa and both of them had a strength of 66 men (each).

"The First Italo-German Counteroffensive" also includes a nice 1st of April 1941 OOB:

North Africa Superior Command - Italo Gariboldi
    General Staff + Headquarters - Alighiero Miele

    Superior Command Royal Carabinieri
        266th Motorized Section
        620th Motorized Section
        621st Motorized Section
        660th Motorized Section
        671st Motorized Section
        675th Motorized Section
        676th Motorized Section
        704th Motorized Section

    Superior Command Artillery
        5th Army Artillery Raggruppamento (to 20th Army Corps)
            19th Group (149/35)
            20th Group (149/35)
            21st Group (149/35)
            22nd Group (149/35)
        2nd Corps Artillery Raggruppamento
            18th Group (88/56)
            29th Group (88/56)
            43rd Group (75/48) (to 10th Army Corps)
            42nd Group (2 Static Batteries 75/48)
            14th Group (2 Batteries 75/27) (to 10th Army Corps)
        16th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento (to 10th Army Corps)
            15th Group (105/28)
            44th Group (105/28)
            49th Group (105/28)
        2nd Fast Artillery Regiment (to 17th Infantry Division "Pavia")
            1st Group (2 Batteries 75/27)
            2nd Group (2 Batteries 75/27)
            3rd Group (3 Batteries 100/17)
        1st DICAT Group (202nd, 203rd, 204th, 205th, and 206th Batteries) (Used to defend airfields)
    
    Superior Command Engineers - Luigi Grosso
        1st Special Engineer Raggrpupamento
            2nd Mine Engineer Battalion
                23rd Mine Engineer Company
                26th Mine Engineer Company
                1st Arresting Engineer Company
                14th Arresting Engineer Company
                15th Arresting Engineer Company
            Guastatori Battalion
                3rd Guastatori Company
                4th Guastatori Company
            Water Battalion
                3rd Water Company
                4th Water Company
                6th Water Company
                10th Water Company
            Special Battalion
                3rd Firefighting Company
                3rd Balloon Company
                Searchlight Company
                Cinematography Section
            27th Engineer Battalion
                1st Company
                2nd Company
        2nd Special Engineer Raggrpupamento
            4th Signals Battalion
                119th Telegraph Company
                120th Telegraph Company
                110th Radio Company
                12th Mobile Dovecote
            65th Signals Battalion
                126th Telegraph Company
                127th Telegraph Company
                113th Radio Company
                37th Mobile Dovecote
            11th Signals Battalion
                117th Telegraph Company
                127th Radio Company
                134th Radio Company
            7th Signals Battalion
                137th Special Radio Company
                151st Special Radio Company
            Superior Command Signals Battalion
                118th Telegraph Company
                Superior Command Telegraph Company
                Superior Command Radio Company
                Mobile Workshop Unit
                25th Mobile Dovecote
                55th PFT Signals Company
        1st Labor Company Raggruppamento
            6th Labor Battalion
                5th Labor Company
                9th Labor Company
                10th Labor Company
                14th Labor Company
                Searchlight Labor Company
            7th Labor Battalion
                17th Labor Company
                18th Labor Company
                25th Labor Company
                27th Labor Company
                30th Labor Company
            5th Labor Battalion
                28th Labor Company
                29th Labor Company
                6th Labor Company (Independent)
                Depot Company (Independent)
        2nd Labor Company Raggruppamento
            1st Labor Battalion
                1st Labor Company
                2nd Labor Company
                3rd Labor Company
                4th Labor Company
            2nd Labor Battalion
                7th Labor Company
                8th Labor Company
                11th Labor Company
                12th Labor Company
                13th Labor Company
            3rd Labor Battalion
                15th Labor Company
                16th Labor Company
                19th Labor Company
                20th Labor Company
                21st Labor Company
            4th Labor Battalion
                22nd Labor Company
                23rd Labor Company
                24th Labor Company
                26th Labor Company
        Special Engineer Vehicle Group
            1st Vehicle Company
            2nd Vehicle Company
            3rd Vehicle Company
            Service Units

    North Africa Rear Area - Romano Giuseppe
        General Staff + Headquarters
            104th Mixed Carabinieri Section
            105th Mixed Carabinieri Section
            268th Motorized Carabinieri Section
            298th Motorized Carabinieri Section
            1337th Mixed Carabinieri Section
        North Africa Rear Area Office
            Medical Directorate
                [Not Transcribed]
            Commissariat Directorate
                [Not Transcribed]
            Engineer Directorate
                [Not Transcribed]
            Transport Directorate
                [Not Transcribed]
            Artillery (Ammunition) Directorate
                [Not Transcribed]
            Vehicle Directorate
                [Not Transcribed]
            Administration Directorate
                [Not Transcribed]
            Staging Directorate
                [Not Transcribed]
            Postal Directorate
                [Not Transcribed]
            Forestry Directorate
                [Not Transcribed]
            Veternary Directorate
                [Not Transcribed]
            Garrison Services
                [Not Transcribed]

    Superior Command Vehicle Group
        8th Vehicle Group
            24th Heavy Vehicle Unit
            142nd Heavy Vehicle Unit
            143rd Heavy Vehicle Unit
        9th Vehicle Group
            56th Heavy Vehicle Unit
            57th Heavy Vehicle Unit
        1st Caterpillar Vehicle Unit

    132nd Armored Division "Ariete"
        General Staff + Headquarters
            70th Motorized Carabinieri Section
            71st Motorized Carabinieri Section
        8th Bersaglieri Regiment
            3rd Motorcycle Bersaglieri Battalion
            5th Motorized Bersaglieri Battalion
            12th Motorized Bersaglieri Battalion
        132nd Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
        142nd Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
        72nd Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
        32nd Tank Infantry Regiment
            1st Light Tank Battalion
            2nd Light Tank Battalion
            3rd Light Tank Battalion
            7th Medium Tank Battalion
            8th Medium Tank Battalion (Only Personnel)
        132nd Artillery Regiment
            1st Group (3 Batteries 75/27)
            2nd Group (3 Batteries 75/27)
            7th 20mm Battery
            8th 20mm Battery
            146th 20mm Battery
        132nd Mixed Engineer Company
        Service Units
            [Not Transcribed]
        Reinforcement Elements
            From 10th Army Corps
                10 37/54 Guns
                1st Group, 24th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento (3 Batteries 105/28)
            From 25th Infantry Division "Bologna"
                1st Battalion, 39th Infantry Regiment

    102nd Motorized Division "Trento"
        General Staff + Headquarters
            160th Motorized Carabinieri Section
            161st Motorized Carabinieri Section
        61st Motorized Infantry Regiment
            [The document doesn't include subelements for some reason]
        62nd Motorized Infantry Regiment
            [The document doesn't include subelements for some reason]
        7th Bersaglieri Regiment
            [The document doesn't include subelements for some reason]
        551st Motorized Machine Gun Battalion
        102nd Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
        104th Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
        106th Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
        46th Artillery Regiment
            1st Group (100/17)
            2nd Group (75/27)
            3rd Group (75/27)
            Note: this isn't the standard organization of a motorized artillery regiment, which should have four groups of 2 batteries each
            2 20mm Batteries
        51st Mixed Engineer Battalion
            161st Engineer and Park Company
            96th Signals and Searchlight Company
            96th Radio Section
            56th Searchlight Section
        Service Units
            [Not Transcribed]
            Note: this included many organic truck sections compared to the single one most auto-transportable divisions had
        Non-Organic Service Units
            [Not Transcribed]

    10th Army Corps - Alberto Barbieri

        Command
            General Staff
                Artillery Command
                Engineer Command
                Medical Directorate
                Commissariat Directorate
            Headquarters
            Motorcycle Detachment
            680th Motorized Carabinieri Section
            681st Motorized Carabinieri Section
        
        Troops
            4th Light Tank Battallion (to 25th Infantry Division "Bologna")
            5th Light Tank Battalion (to 17th Infantry Division "Pavia")
            24th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento
                1st Group (3 Batteries 105/28) - to 132nd Armored Division "Ariete"
                2nd Group (3 Batteries 105/28) - to 17th Infantry Division "Pavia"
                3rd Group (3 Batteries 100/17)
            10th Signals Battalion
                89th Transmissions Company
                10th Signals Workshop
            10th Special Engineer Battalion
            Service Units
                [Not Transcribed]
        
        Reinforcement Elements
            From Superior Command
                36th Libyan Battalion
                18th Libyan Battalion
            From Superior Command Artillery
                16th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento
                    44th Group (3 Batteries 105/28)
                    49th Group (3 Batteries 105/28)
                    15th Group (105/28) (to 27th Infantry Division "Brescia")
            From 55th Infantry Division "Savona"
                16th Infantry Regiment
                    1st Battalion
                    3rd Battalion
                    Mortar Company (81/14)
            From Detachment, 60th Infantry Division "Sabratha"
                1st Group, 10th Artillery Regiment "Bologna" (3 Batteries 100/17)
            From 2nd Corps Artillery Raggruppamento
                14th Group (2 Batteries 75/48)
                43rd Group (2 Batteries 75/48) (to 17th Infantry Division "Pavia")
            From Superior Command Engineers
                124th Radio Company

        17th Infantry Division "Pavia" - Pietro Zaglio
            General Staff + Headquarters
                74th Mixed Carabinieri Section
                54th Postal Office With Carabinieri Element
            27th Infantry Regiment
                1st Battalion
                2nd Battalion (Minus Support Weapons Company) (to 20th Army Corps) (Fortified Base)
                3rd Battalion
                Mortar Company (81/14)
                36th Infantry Gun Company (65/17)
                Reinforcements
                    6 37/45 Guns
                    12 Schwarzlose Machine Guns
            28th Infantry Regiment
                1st Battalion
                2nd Battalion (Fortified Base)
                3rd Battalion
                Mortar Company (81/14)
                90th Infantry Gun Company (65/17)
                Reinforcements
                    6 37/45 Guns
            101st Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
            103rd Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
            105th Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
            3rd Fast Artillery Regiment
                2nd Group (2 Batteries 75/27)
                3rd Group (2 Batteries 75/27)
                7th 20mm Battery
                8th 20mm Battery
                48th 20mm Battery
            17th Replacements Battalion (to 20th Army Corps) (Fortified Base)
            17th Mixed Engineer Battalion
            Service Units
                [Not Transcribed]
            Reinforcement Elements
                From the 10th Army Corps
                    5th Light Tank Battalion
                    2nd Group, 24th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento (3 Batteries 105/28)
                    42nd Group (2 Batteries 75/48)
                From Superior Command Artillery
                    2nd Fast Artillery Regiment
                        1st Group (2 Batteries 75/27)
                        2nd Group (2 Batteries 75/27)
                        3rd Group (3 Batteries 100/17)
                        7th 20mm Battery
                        8th 20mm Battery
            Coastal Defense Elements
                11th Static Battery (75/27)
                68th Static Battery (75/27) (-1 Section at Buerat)
                9th Static Machine Gun Company (-1 Platoon at Buerat)

        25th Infantry Division "Bologna"
            General Staff + Headquarters
                73rd Mixed Carabinieri Section
                58th Postal Office With Carabinieri Element
            39th Infantry Regiment
                1st Battalion (to 132nd Armored Division "Ariete")
                2nd Battalion (Minus Support Weapons Company) (to 20th Army Corps) (Fortified Base)
                3rd Battalion
                Mortar Company (81/14)
                29th Infantry Gun Company (65/17)
                Reinforcements
                    8 37/45 Guns
                    2 65/17 Guns
                    6 Schwarzlose Machine Guns
                    15 Hotchkiss Machine Guns
            40th Infantry Regiment
                1st Battalion (Minus Support Weapons Company) (to 20th Army Corps) (Fortified Base)
                2nd Battalion
                3rd Battalion
                Mortar Company (81/14)
                91st Infantry Gun Company (65/17)
                Reinforcements
                    8 37/45 Guns
                    1 47/32 Gun
                    36 Schwarzlose Machine Guns
            20th Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
            44th Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
            73rd Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
            205th Artillery Regiment
                1st Group (75/27)
                2nd Group (75/27)
                3rd Group (75/27)
                4th 20mm Battery
                17th 20mm Battery
                30th 20mm Battery
            25th Replacement Battalion (to 20th Army Corps)
            25th Mixed Engineer Battalion
            Service Units
                [Not Transcribed]
            Reinforcement Elements
                From 10th Army Corps
                    4th Light Tank Battalion

        27th Infantry Division "Brescia" - Bortolo Zambon
            General Staff + Headquarters
                127th Mixed Carabinieri Section
                96th Postal Office With Carabinieri Element
            19th Infantry Regiment
                1st Battalion
                2nd Battalion
                3rd Battalion (Minus Support Weapons Company) (to 20th Army Corps) (Fortified Base)
                Mortar Company (81/14)
                34th Infantry Gun Battery "Livorno" (65/17)
                Reinforcements
                    3 37/45 Platoons
                    2 Schwarzlose Machine Gun Platoons
            20th Infantry Regiment
                1st Battalion
                2nd Battalion (Minus Support Weapons Company) (to 20th Army Corps)
                3rd Battalion
                Mortar Company (81/14)
                38th Infantry Gun Battery "Ravenna" (65/17)
                Reinforcements
                    3 37/45 Platoons
                    2 Schwarzlose Machine Gun Platoons
            5th Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
            71st Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
            227th Anti-Tank Company (47/32) (in Preparation)
            1st Fast Artillery Regiment
                1st Group (2 Batteries 75/27)
                2nd Group (2 Batteries 75/27)
                7th 20mm Battery
                8th 20mm Battery
                502nd 20mm Battery
            27th Replacement Battalion (to 20th Army Corps) (Fortified Base)
            Service Units
                [Not Transcribed]
            Reinforcement Elements
                From 10th Army Corps
                    15th Group, 16th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento (3 Batteries 105/28)
                Temporarily
                    102nd Anti-Tank Company (47/32) (From 102nd Motorized Division "Trento")

    20th Army Corps - Carlo Spatocco
        Command
            General Staff
                Artillery Command
                Engineer Command
                Medical Directorate
                Commissariat Directorate
            Headquarters
                Command Unit
                677th Motorized Carabinieri Section
                220th Post Office

        Troops
            20th Special Engineer Battalion
                1st Special Engineer Company
                2nd Special Engineer Company
            20th Signals Battalion
                93rd Telegraph Company
                143rd Radio Company
            Service Units
                [Not Transcribed]

        Garian-Nalut Sector
            55th Infantry Division "Savona" - Pietro Maggiani
                General Staff + Headquarters
                    75th Mixed Carabinieri Section
                    55th Motorcycle Detachment
                    55th Post Office With Carabinieri Unit
                15th Infantry Regiment
                    1st Battalion
                    2nd Battalion
                    3rd Battalion
                    Mortar Company (81/14)
                    266th Infantry Gun Battery (65/17)
                    Reinforcements
                        10 St. Etienne Machine Guns
                        21 Schwarzlose Machine Guns
                16th Infantry Regiment
                    1st Battalion (to 10th Army Corps)
                    2nd Battalion (to Tobruk Fortress) (Coastal Defence)
                    3rd Battalion (to 10th Army Corps)
                    267th Infantry Gun Battery (65/17)
                12th Artillery Regiment
                    1st Group (2 Batteries 100/17)
                    2nd Group (2 Batteries 105/28, 1 Battery 75/27)
                    27th 20mm Battery
                    503rd 20mm Battery
                    504th 20mm Battery
                255th Anti-Tank Company (47/32) (in Prepration)
                55th Replacement Battalion (to Tobruk Fortifications)
                55th Mixed Engineer Battalion
                    55th Signals Company
                    127th Signals Company
                Service Units
                    [Not Transcribed]

            Nalut Coverage Sector (29th)
                1000 G.a.F. Infantrymen
                290th G.a.F. Artillery Raggruppamento
                    291st Group (2 Batteries 77/28)
                    292nd Group (2 Batteries 77/28)
                    293rd Group (2 Batteries 77/28)
                4th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                5th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                6th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                7th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                4th Spahi Squadrons Group
                    1st Spahi Squadron
                    2nd Spahi Squadron
                    3rd Spahi Squadron

            Chibla Coverage Sector
                26th Artillery Company (75/32)
                20th Artillery Battery (77/28)
                32nd Libyan Battalion
                2nd Company, 18th Libyan Battalion
                13th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                50th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                51st Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                Irregular Band "della Chibla"
                Irregular Band "Gialo"

        Zuara Sector - Mario de Meo
            Zuara Coverage Sector (28th)
                3500 G.a.F. Infantrymen
                38th G.a.F. Artillery Raggruppamento
                    382nd Group (3 Batteries 75/27)
                    383rd Group (2 Batteries 75/27, 1 Battery 77/28)
                    384th Group (2 Batteries 75/27)
                    6th Group (2 Batteries 149/12)
                    7th Group (2 Batteries 75/27)
                1st Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                2nd Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                3rd Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                8th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                Libya Cavalry Raggruppamento
                    1st Spahi Squadron Group
                        1st Spahi Squadron
                        2nd Spahi Squadron
                        3rd Spahi Squadron (to Zavia Coastal Subsector)
                        4th Spahi Squadron
                    2nd Spahi Squadron Group
                        1st Spahi Squadron
                        5th Spahi Squadron
                        6th Spahi Squadron
                        7th Spahi Squadron
                    3rd Spahi Squadron Group
                        1st Spahi Squadron
                        2nd Spahi Squadron
                        3rd Spahi Squadron
                    4th Self-Propelled Machine Gun Company

            Coastal Defense
                Coastal Subsector Zuara
                    30th Libyan Coastal Battalion
                    281st Group (2 Batteries 77/28)
                Coastal Subsector Zavia
                    2nd Battalion, 20th Infantry Regiment (From 25th Infantry Division "Brescia")
                    Garrison Company (From 86th Infantry Regiment)
                    3rd Libyan Cavalry Sauadron (From Cavalry Raggruppamento)
                    331st Group (2 Batteries 77/28)

        Homs Sector
            Detachment, 60th Infantry Division "Sabratha" - Guido della Bona
                General Staff + Headquarters
                    106th Mixed Carabinieri Section
                    260th Post Office
                Formation Infantry Regiment "Sabratha"
                    1st Battalion, 85th Infantry Regiment
                        85th Mortar Company (81/14)
                    1st Battalion, 86th Infantry Regiment
                        86th Mortar Company (81/14)
                    257th Infantry Gun Battery (65/17)
                    264th Infantry Gun Battery (65/17)
                17th Machine Gun Battalion (From 17th Infantry Division "Pavia")
                25th Machine Gun Battalion (From 25th Infantry Division "Bologna")
                60th Machine Gun Battalion (From 60th Infantry Division "Sabratha")
                260th Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
                117th Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
                Elements, 10th Bersaglieri Regiment
                Elements, 201st Motorized Bersaglieri Company
                Elements, 202nd Motorized Bersaglieri Company
                Artillery Raggruppamento
                    1st Static Group, 14th G.a.F. Artillery Raggruppamento (2 Batteries 100/17)
                    12th Battery, 20th Corps Artillery Regiment (75/27)
                    6th Battery, 2nd Group, 26th Artillery Regiment "Pavia" (75/27)
                    1st Group, 10th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento (100/17)
                60th Mixed Engineer Battalion
                    126th Special Engineer Company
                    60th Signals Company
                    96th Searchlight Section
                Service Units
                    [Not Transcribed]

            Beni Ulid Garrison
                35th Libyan Battalion
                    1 Motorized Carabinieri Section

            Coastal Defense
                Coastal Subsector Homs
                    2nd Group, 26th Artillery Regiment "Pavia"
                        4th Battery (75/27)
                        5th Battery (75/27)
                    66th Battery (77/28)
                    3rd Company, 5th Blackshirt Battalion
                Coastal Subsector Zilten
                    102nd Coastal Artillery Group
                        67th Battery (75/27)
                        63rd Battery (77/28)
                    11th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                    2nd Replacement Machine Gun Company
                Coastal Subsector Misurata
                    From 25th Infantry Division "Bologna"
                        25th Replacements Battalion
                        70th Garrison Company
                    7th Group, 35th G.a.F. Artillery Raggruppamento
                        58th Battery (77/28)
                        59th Battery (77/28)
                        61st Battery (77/28)
                        65th Battery (75/27)

        Fortified Base Tripoli
            West Coastal Sector
                33rd Coverage Sector (Zanzur)
                    1300 G.a.F. Infantrymen
                    330th G.a.F. Artillery Raggruppamento
                        332nd Group (2 Batteries 149/12, 1 Battery 210/8, 1 Battery 77/28)
                        333rd Group (3 Batteries 149/35)
                        342nd Group (2 Batteries 77/28)
                        334th Group (2 Batteries 77/28)
                    Mixed Engineer Unit
                    Reinforcement Elements
                        17th Replacement Battalion (From 17th Infatnry Division "Pavia")

            Central Sector
                34th Coverage Sector (Suani ben Adem)
                    1100 G.a.F. Infantrymen
                    340th G.a.F. Artillery Raggruppamento
                        335th Group (3 Batteries 149/12)
                        343rd Group (2 Batteries 77/28)
                        344th Group (3 Batteries 77/28)
                        5th Group (2 Batteries 105/28)
                    Reinforcement Elements
                        27th Replacement Battalion (From 27th Infantry Division "Brescia")
                        2nd Battalion, 28th Infantry Regiment (From 17th Infantry Division "Pavia")
                35th Coverage Sector (Castel Benito)
                    1000 G.a.F. Infantrymen
                    350th G.a.F. Artillery Raggruppamento
                        1st Group (2 Batteries 120/25, 1 Battery 100/17)
                        351st Group (2 Batteries 77/28)
                        341st Group (2 Batteries 149/35)
                        345th Group (2 Batteries 120/25)
                    Reinforcement Elements
                        2nd Battalion, 27th Infantry Regiment (From 17th Infantry Division "Pavia")

            Alauna Sector
                55th Replacement Battalion (From 55th Infantry Division "Savona")
                2nd Battalion, 39th Infantry Regiment (From 25th Infantry Division "Bologna")
                3rd Battalion, 19th Infantry Regiment (From 27th Infantry Division "Brescia")
                4th Machine Gun Squadrons Group "Genova"
                Formation Artillery Group (2 Batteries 120/25, 1 Battery 149/35, 1 Section, 58th Battery 100/17)
            
            East Coastal Sector
                1st Battalion, 40th Infantry Regiment (From 25th Infantry Division "Bologna")
                6th Machine Gun Squadrons Gruop "Aosta"
                5th Army Artillery Raggruppmaento
                    20th Group (3 Batteries 149/35)
                    21st Group (3 Batteries 149/35)
                7th Group, 35th G.a.F. Artillery Raggruppamento (2 Batteries 77/28, 1 Battery 149/12)
                352nd G.a.F. Artillery Group (2 Batteries 77/28)

        Fortress Tripoli (Edoardo Quarra Sito)
            Anti-Aircraft Defence
                30th Coastal and Anti-Aircraft Artillery Raggruppamento
                    100th Coastal and Anti-Aircraft Group
                        3 Batteries 76/40 (Coastal and Anti-Aircraft)
                        1 Battery 77/28 (Anti-Aircraft)
                    101st Static Group
                        3 Batteries 77/28 (Anti-Aircraft)
                        1 Battery 76/40 (Coastal and Anti-Aircraft)
                    1st Static Blackshirt Anti-Aircraft Group
                        2 Batteries 76/40 (Anti-Aircraft)
                        2 Batteries 76/45 (Anti-Aircraft)
                    1st MILMART Group
                        3 Batteries 102/35 (Coastal and Anti-Aircraft)
                    17th Corps Group
                        3 Batteries 88/56 (Anti-Aircraft)
                    29th Corps Group
                        3 Batteries 88/56 (Anti-Aircraft)

            Coastal Defence
                2nd Battalion, 16th Infantry Regiment (55th Infantry Division "Savona)
                Fortress Replacement Battalion
                1st Coastal Blackshirt Battalion
                5th North African Blackshirt
                6th North African Blackshirt
                1st Blackshirt Battalion
                10th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                12th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                2 Batteries of 190/39 (of the 100th Group)
                19th Group (3 Batteries 149/35)
                22nd Group (3 Batteries 149/35)

        Libyan Sahara Command
            Sector Hon
                Hon
                    37th Libyan Battalion
                    21st Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
                    58th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                    61st Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                    4th Sahariana Company (in Prepration)
                    5th Sahariana Company (in Prepration)
                    838th G.a.F. Battery (77/28)
                    Independent 20mm Machine Gun Unit
                    Irregular Group "Giofra"
                    Mixed Engineer Company
                    6 Ghibli Planes
                    7 Cr.42 Planes
                    1 Ca 133 Plane
                Brak
                    55th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                    828th G.a.F. Battery (77/28)
                    6 S.81 Planes
                    2 Ghibli Planes
            
            Sector Ubari-Serdeles-Ghat
                Ubari
                    54th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                    1 Platoon, 1st Meharisti Company
                Serdeles
                    52nd Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                    2nd Meharisti Company "dello Sciati"
                Ghat
                    53rd Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                    1st Meharisti Company "del Fezzan"
                    1st Tuareg Camel Group

            Sector Murzuk
                Murzuk
                    57th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                    2nd Sahariana Company
                    829th G.a.F. Battery (77/28)
                    3rd Meharisti Company "della Chibla"
                Sebha
                    56th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                    3rd Sahariana Company
                    840th G.a.F. Battery (77/28)                    
                    3 Ghibli Planes
            
            Sector Zella
                Zella
                    1st Shariana Company
                    4th Company, 18th Libyan Battalion
                Tagrifet
                    1 Platoon, 59th Libyan Static Machine Gun Company
                    75/27 Battery

Changes to be made/takeaways:
The DICAT groups (except maybe the 201st) were not destroyed in Tobruk
(Some records actually say that they were taken out of North Africa entirely and redeployed later in March 1941)
The 8th Labor Battalion, if any of its units were at Tobruk, had companies of number 31 or higher (31st and 32nd, maybe)
551st Machine Gun Battalion was designated "Motorized"
The Pavia Division had the replacement 36th and 90th 65/17 infantry gun companies
The Bologna Division had the replacement 29th and 91th 65/17 infantry gun companies
The 27th, 503rd, and 504th Independent Batteries were actually 20mm companies, so it's time to redo the Savona Division in all existing scenarios
The 8th is never mentioned, but since it only had 2 guns it was probably larger caliber than 20mm but still an anti-aircraft unit (75/34?)
Still, whiel the German information is kinda useless in terms of unit types, the numbers of guns may still be useful information
Mario de Meo was originally from the Zuara Sector before he became commander of RECAM
The 2nd Group, 26th Artillery Regiment "Pavia" was not destroyed in Compass but stayed behind
Garrison companies were regular army units that could be formed by regular infantry divisions
The 16th Infantry Regiment didn't have a mortar company for some reason

Highly unrelated, but the word for "ships" in Italian, while I never thought about this beforehand, it now makes sense that it's "navi". Kinda funny and interesting for me.

There's also a listing of commanders back on February 20 1941. This includes the following interesting ones:
Giuseppe Cresmascoli and Mario Marghinotti - Brescia and Savona Divisions (Marghinotti is never mentioned by Wikipedia, perhaps he was temporary)
Parii Dino - Colonel, commander of some element of the G.a.F.
Leo Michele - Commander of the Libyan Sahara

Also, the 8th Bersaglieri Battalion of the 7th Bersaglieri Regiment, which was undergoing reformation prior to Crusader, had the following strength of the 27th of October 1941:
1 Motorized Battalion With 24 Submachine Guns, 10 Anti-Tank Rifles, 6 HMGs, and 8 47/32 Anti-Tank Guns
It was at Gialo, along with another platoon of 47/32, 2 machine gun platoons of the 18th Libyan Battalion, 1 section of 20/65, and 3 12.7mm machine guns.

Note that on the 1st of April 1941, the Brescia Division had the following gun units:

5th Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
71st Anti-Tank Company (47/32)
227th Anti-Tank Company (47/32) (in Preparation)
1st Fast Artillery Regiment
    1st Group (2 Batteries 75/27)
    2nd Group (2 Batteries 75/27)
    7th 20mm Battery
    8th 20mm Battery
    502nd 20mm Battery

But by the 1st of November, it had been reduced to:

1 Anti-Tank Company (47/32) (Number Unknown)
1st Fast Artillery Regiment
    1st Group (2 Batteries 100/17) (1 Missing)
    2nd Group (3 Batteries 100/17)
    3rd Group (2 Batteries 75/27)
    4th Group (2 Batteries 75/27)
    1 20mm Battery (Number Unknown)

The 63rd Garrison Company has reappeared as part of the ARMIR of all places. Here's how it can be found:
8th Army/ARMIR
    Directly Dependent Units
        Intendancy
            Rear Area (Tappe)
                Rear Area Directorate
                    63rd Garrison Company
                    3 Major Rear Area Commands
                    6 Secondary Rear Area Commands
                    11 Special Rear Area Commands
                    4 Rear Area officers
                    4 Mobile Territorial Battalions (4 Companies Each)
                    3 Mobile Territorial Battalions (3 Companies Each)
                    8 Dismounted Artillery Groups (4 Batteries Each)
One man from this company was a Sergeant L.J. (only initials can be located) who was interrogated by the CSIR for reasons I will probably never know.
Back in the days of the CSIR, I don't beleive the 63rd was around, and instead there was a 22nd Garrison Company that was operating in the rear in the Soviet Union.

In general, though the 70th Garrison Company of the Bologna Division and a separate garrison company from the Sabratha Division have appeared, I've haven't gained much about them.
In fact, almost all information I can find about these units comes almost exclusively from World War I sources which aren't too useful.
This is partially because all infantry divisions under the standard organization during that war had a garrison company assigned to them. Not sure why it was necessary.
Like, too many of them. It's nearly impossible to find anything from World War II. It's almost as if Italian writers, who are the only ones who cover this, aren't too proud of their nation's performance.
Also, the 70th Garrison Company even existing is weird given there was never a 70th Division in the first place. But maybe this was actually formed by the 70th Infantry Regiment of the Sirte Division.
But if that was the case, the 63rd Garrison Company would've been formed not by the 63rd Cirene Division, but by the 59th Cagliari Division's 63rd Infantry Regiment, which was in Greece.

Alternately, it could be the depots of the regiments that formed the companies rather than the regiments themselves. In fact, this possibility seems more likely.
The Cagliari Division did not exist during the East African Campaign, but the 63rd Infantry Regiment did, and it passed through Cyrenaica to get to Eritrea.
The depot was also based in Salerno, which isn't too far from North Africa and is where several other units that ended up in Cyrenaica came from.
Now that this seems quite plausible, I'm gonna make this change. It might not be 100% confirmable as true but it's the best I have for now.
This isn't a great number, but in World War I, garrison companies had both numbers and letters. Those with numbers 1-94 were from infantry regiment depots. Larger numbers came from special regiments.

When it deployed to Rommel's command on the 22nd and 23rd of January, the Sabratha Division had 7 battalions, no anti-tank armament, and a single 75/27 group.

From "The Second Italo-German Counteroffensive", we get confirmation that the Sabratha Division had just 2 battalions in each of its regiments, with no infantry guns (except for the 340th battery, divisional).
There's also a slightly cooked OOB for Gazala. It doesn't include specifics for any divisions, so I'll go with just the things I find interesting:
(Incomplete)
90th Light Division:
    1 Platoon, 900th Pioneer Battalion
    1 Squadron, Unit 621 (621st Radio Interception Unit)
    3rd Reconaissance Battalion (But not the 33rd)
C.T.A. (D.A.K.)
    1 Platoon, Unit 621 (621st Radio Interception Unit)
    4th and 5th Batteries, 115th Artillery Regiment (From its 2nd Battalion)
20th Army Corps
    Assigned Army Units
        147th Heavy Artillery Group (2 Batteries)
        131st Heavy Artillery Group (2 Batteries)
        2nd Group, 24th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento (Duplicated)
        5th Group, 1st Fast Artillery Regiment (88/56)
        Engineer Command (Colonel Raffaelli)
        1st Company, 27th Engineer Battalion
        90th Engineer Company
21st Army Corps
    Corps Units
        2nd Group, 24th Corps Artillery Raggruppamento (Duplicated)
        ? Company, 27th Engineer Battalion
    15th Infantry Brigade
        200th Light Infantry Regiment
            708th Heavy Infantry Gun Regiment (Transferred to Panzerarmee Afrika, then to the 90th Light Afrika Division)
        361st Light Infantry Regiment
        442nd Battery, 612th Flak Battalion
        1st Platoon, 900th Pioneer Battalion
        1st Mixed Communications Platoon (From Army)

Series on AA Batteries:
0-99 - Divisional Artillery Regiments
100-299 - Divisional Artillery Regiment Reinforcements
300-399 - ? (Tank Units) (These have never appeared a single time)
400-499 - African Reinforcements
500-599 - Fast Artillery Regiments
1300-1499 - Static 88mm, Formed in 1943
1500-1599 - Static 20mm, Formed in 1943
I made the above tentative chart because pages 431-434 of Montanari's "The Third British Offensive" have a ton of references to the 400-series units.
This makes me think the 4th Tank Infantry Regiment would've had the 304th, since these are both number series that I can't otherwise find anything about.
Another 400-series battery, the 437th, can be found with the 205th Artillery Regiment that acted as a replacement for the Bologna Division.

On the 17th of November a major storm hit the Mediterranean from Egypt to Libya. This seemed to me like something of little relevance initially until I read some quotes about its effects.
German troops of the 15th Panzer Division, then deployed near the entrance to Halfaya Pass, were drowned in mud from the first rains in 60 years. The defenders of Tobruk suffered a similar fate.

A Squadron, 7th Hussars was commanded by a Seymour-Evans, while B Squadron, 7th Hussars was commanded by a Younger, at least according to a Crusader report by Brigadier Davy.
I'm not sure because this information is slightly less clear but I think a Major Congreve commanded C Squadron of this same unit.
Seymour-Evans was later injured and was replaced by a Captain R.c. Watson, but he was also injured and command in the squadron collapsed temporarily.
Another injured commander during this phase was Freddie Byass who commanded the regiment, replaced by a Major Fosdick whose origin is yet unknown to me.

Neumann-Silkow's chief of staff in the 15th Panzer Division was Colonel Rainer Kriebel.
A major Godson commanded B Squadron, 4th County of London Yeomanry and was a casualty at Bir el Gubi.
Colonel Bonner Fellers, the "Good Source" was actually at 4th Armoured Brigade HQ early in Crusader. They were unlucky that he wasn't captured.
One of the artillery batteries subordinated to the 70th Infantry Division in Crusader was commanded by a Lieutenant Hester-Hewitt.
The company commanders of the 21st New Zealand Battalion were Major Trousdale, Captain Yeoman, Captain Tongue, and the unknown commander of its D Company.

According to Greene and Massignani, Arditi units in North Africa (and possibly in general) were picked men from existing units and were not formed on their own individually.
So the 2 Arditi platoons of the 2nd Battalion, 69th Infantry Regiment were taken from the best men of that unit (interval troops of the eastern sector) and this wasn't the case for most battalions.

Another thing I was wrong about was the structure of the Australian and New Zealand Artillery.
Australian regiments had 2 batteries each. Each battery included two 4-gun troops of 18-pounders and a single 4-gun troop of 4.5 inch howitzers. The numbers seem to just count up.
Batteries were sequentially numbered from the 1st, in the 2/1st Field Regiment. This makes the numbers quite easy to understand though they did become messier after they switched to three-battery regiments.
The same went for anti-tank regiments and the numbering of their batteries, although each anti-tank regiment had four rather than two batteries.
New Zealand field regiments all had 3 batteries apiece, and the anti-tank regiment had 4. There were also numerous specialized regiments and a huge amount that stayed in New Zealand.
However, the battery numbers are often irregular. Those that fought with the 2nd Division in North Africa are:
4th Field Regiment: 25,26,46
5th Field Regiment: 27,28,47
6th Field Regiment: 29,30,48
7th Anti-Tank Regiment: 31,32,33,34
14th Light Anti-Aircraft Regiment: 41,42,43
Some other units like the 12th Field Regiment and 39th Heavy Mortar Battery were at times part of the division but I haven't seen any reference to them in North Africa.

South African Field Regiments also had three batteries apiece with 8 guns each. However the batteries were often reorganized, such as at Tobruk in 1942 (2nd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th, and 12th) batteries present.
But at no point in the entire game currently do South African artillery units appear at the company level, so even though I was wrong about this previously, there's no consequences for it.
The Luftwaffe is often criticized for its use of ground divisions. Yet it's important to note that the British had Royal Artillery Infantry Brigades as well, the 301st-308th.

Current listing of infantry gun companies:
1st-6th Libyan - Libyan Divisions (some to CC.NN. Divisions)
15th "Savona" - Savona Division (to 1st CC.NN. Division)
16th "Savona" - Savona Division (to 1st CC.NN. Division)
19th "Brescia" - Brescia Division (to Marmarica Division)
20th "Brescia" - Brescia Division (to Marmarica Division)
27th "Pavia" - Pavia Division (to 2nd Libyan Division)
28th "Pavia" - Pavia Division (to 2nd Libyan Division)
    29th "Assietta" - Bologna Division reinforcement
    34th "Livorno" - Brescia Division reinforcement
    36th "Pistoia" - Pavia Division reinforcement
    38th "Ravenna" - Brescia Division reinforcement
39th "Bologna" - Bologna Division
40th "Bologna" - Bologna Division
69th "Sirte" - Sirte Division (to Cirene Division)
70th "Sirte" - Sirte Division (to Cirene Division)
85th "Sabratha"- Sabratha Division
86th "Sabratha"- Sabratha Division (Unclear)
    90th "Salerno"/"Cosseria" - Pavia Division reinforcement
    91st "Basilicata"/"Superga" - Bologna Division reinforcement
        Elements, 42nd Sector Artillery Group (G.a.F.)
            252nd - Sabratha Division reinforcement
            266th - Savona Division reinforcement
            [259th, 265th]
        Elements, 57th Sector Artillery Group (G.a.F.)
            251st - Sabratha Division reinforcement
            264th - Sabratha Division reinforcement
        Elements, 103rd Sector Artillery Group (G.a.F.)
            254th - Sabratha Division reinforcement
            255th - Sabratha Division reinforcement
            256th - Sabratha Division reinforcement
            257th - Sabratha Division reinforcement
            [357th]
        267th - Savona Division reinforcement (Origin Unknown)
        886th - Trieste Division reinforcement (1943)
Note: I've read in some places that the Sabratha Division only received 6 of these and not all 7.
This source also indicates the 86th Infantry Regiment never had an infantry gun company but this seems weird to me.

Based on this, plus other evidence from Carlo Montù's "History of the Artillery", I'm gonna attempt to track down where the 13 65/17 infantry guns that the Tobruk garrison had.
Firstly, the fortress itself had no infantry guns on the 25th of July. The only source of 5 was from the 1st Libyan Division, and there were 4s and 8s all over the place.
However, these 5 guns don't appear clearly anywhere else. It's hard for me to know where another 5 guns could've appeared, and at the same time at least one likely came from the Tobruk depot.
So ultimately I don't think there is anything I can do in this current position. There's no information anywhere about these batteries and I'm not anywhere close to piecing it together. Guess I'll sleep on it...

On the 16th of June ("The Operations in North Africa", page 67), a raggruppamento of 8 65/17 batteries from the XX Army Corps were given to the 10th Army.
These were likely the 15th and 16th "Savona", 19th and 20th "Brescia", 27th and 28th "Pavia", and 69th and 70th "Sirte". I don't know why it was decided not to move the ones from the Bologna Division as well.
Since the Bologna Division had its infantry gun batteries replaced by the 29th and 91st, they must've been lost at some point. I think it now makes sense to say they were the ones the Sirte Division got as replacement.
Its noted that the Libyan Divisions Group (Gallina) and XXI Corps (Spatocco) had a total of 12 65/17 accompanying batteries (so infantry guns, not artillery), and I think they were:
Libyan Divisions Group
    1st Libyan Division
        Unknown Battery, 4th CC.NN. Division
        Battery, Bardia G.a.F. (Not counted for some reason?)
    2nd Libyan Division
        27th "Pavia" Infantry Gun Battery
        28th "Pavia" Infantry Gun Battery
XXI Corps
    63rd "Cirene" Infantry Division
        69th "Sirte" Infantry Gun Battery
        70th "Sirte" Infantry Gun Battery
        157th "Cirene" Infantry Gun Battery
        158th "Cirene" Infantry Gun Battery
    64th "Catanzaro" Infantry Division
        141st "Catanzaro" Infantry Gun Battery
        142nd "Catanzaro" Infantry Gun Battery
    Raggruppamento Maletti
        4th Libyan Group (3 Batteries)

By the way, I was entirely wrong about the initial setup of the 32nd G.a.F. Coverage Sector. Its two subsectors did not cover the two roads. Rather, one of them covered the desert and the other was split in two.
The initial organization in Tobruk, June 10, was as follows (format: name / base):
Piazzaforte di Tobruch
    XXXI Settore di Copertura (Sidi Daud / Sidi Mahmud)
        XXXI/A Subsector (Sidi Daud)
            Strongpoint Zeitun
            Strongpoint Sidi Daud
            Strongpoint Suesi
            Strongpoint Bir Junes
        XXXI/B Subsector (Bivio El Adem / Bir Lasin)
            Strongpoint Dahar el Azazi
            Strongpoint Bir Umm Haleiga
    XXXII Settore di Copertura (Ras el Medauuar / Pilastrino)
        XXXII/A Subsector (Ras el Medauuar)
            Strongpoint Umm Cuheil / Bir el Meclub
            Strongpoint Es Sehel
            Strongpoint Ras es Sehel
            Strongpoint Ras el Medauuar / Bir el Medauuar
        XXXII/B Subsector (Pilastrino / Hagfet el Carmusa)
            Strongpoint Bir eg Giasc / Bir el Faras
            Strongpoint Sidi Cheiralla / Hagfet Umm Haleiga

One thing I apparently just forgot to do was implement was the 12 81/14 mortars that were found in the depots of the Tobruk base. I implemented the guns of all types, but not the mortars or the MGs.
As the 61st Mortar Company was at full strength (6), these 12 would be evenly split between the 141st and 142nd. We can assume the quality of those two companies to be questionable but they were not missing any arms.

When the Trento Division's 2nd Battalion, 62nd Infantry Regiment was deployed to the Bardia-Halfaya-Sidi Omar area, it had a 47/32 company and 20/65 section with it of unknown numbers.
Annoyingly, this is mentioned in several different places in "The First Italo-German Counteroffensive" as well as the 2 47/32 companies investing Tobruk, but none of them ever include numbers.

Notes on the grammar surrounding "Caposaldo", with plural "Capisaldi":
Location / Point - "di" (e.g. caposaldo di q. 144)
Named - nothing (e.g. caposaldo "Piave")
Non-proper location - "del" (e.g. caposaldo del bivio di el Adem)
For the 16 at Tobruk:

Strongpoint Zeitun
Strongpoint di Sidi Daud
Strongpoint ? Suesi
Strongpoint ? Bir Junes
Strongpoint di Dahar el Azazi
Strongpoint di/_? (both have been seen) Bir Umm Haleiga

Strongpoint di Umm Cuheil
Strongpoint ? Bir el Meclub
Strongpoint ? Es Sehel
Strongpoint ? Ras es Sehel
Strongpoint ? Ras el Medauuar
Strongpoint ? Bir el Medauuar
Strongpoint ? Bir eg Giasc
Strongpoint ? Bir el Faras
Strongpoint ? Sidi Cheiralla
Strongpoint Hagfet Umm Haleiga

I've not obtained enough information and the double on Bir Umm Haleiga doesn't help things. Based on the internet the grammatical difference is location vs proper noun.
But since based on this I don't think I will do anything. After all the strongpoints are all named in a way and it would be utterly pointless to try to determine the differences. This is a dead end.
Also, at one point, Montanari misspells Umm Cuheil and Umm Chueil, which caused a brief bit of annoyance for me as I had to go check all my sources to make sure it was his mistake that was made and not mine.

This book also includes a potentially more accurate OOB for Operation Battleaxe. There's also some details in the sketches. Here is the transcription:
Note that the one currently on Wikipedia as of writing this is terrible. If I feel like I have the time I'll go update that page.
Strongpoint Halfaya (Caposaldo di Halfaya):
    Italian:
        1 Company and 1 Mortar Squadron, II/62nd Infantry Regiment
        1 47/32 Platoon (from the 106th 47/32 Company)
        1 Mine Engineer Company
        1 100/17 Battery, 2nd Fast Artillery Regiment
    German:
        1 Infantry Battalion
        1 88mm Battery
        1 37mm (Pak 36) Anti-Tank Company (Up to 12 Guns)
        4 20mm AA MGs
    Total 400 Italians, 500 Germans
Strongpoint of Upper and Lower Sollum
    Command, 1 Rifle Company and 1 Mortar Squadron, II/62nd Infantry Regiment
    1 47/32 Platoon
    Total 200 Italians
Strongpoint Musaid
    1 Rifle Company and 1 Mortar Squadron, II/62nd Infantry Regiment
    1 47/32 Platoon
    Total 220 Italians
Strongpoint Capuzzo
    Italian:
        1 Rifle Company, I/61st Infantry Regiment
    German:
        2 37mm (Pak 36) Anti-Tank Guns (Platoon-sized element)
        1 20mm AA MG
    Total 180 Italians, 30 Germans
Point 206: No Italian units
Point 208:
    3 20mm AA MGs
    2 37mm (Pak 36) Anti-Tank Platoons (6 Guns)
    2 Batteries (8 Guns), 2nd Fast Artillery Regiment
    8 106mm German Guns
Note that the Trento Division is quite strangely organized at this time, with this being its infantry structure:
Trento Division HQ (Near Sidi Daud)
    61st Infantry Regiment HQ (Gambut)
        2nd Battalion, 61st Infantry Regiment
        1st Battalion, 62nd Infantry Regiment
        102nd Anti-Tank Company
        104th Anti-Tank Company
    62nd Infantry Regiment HQ (Frontier)
        1st Battalion, 61st Infantry Regiment
        2nd Battalion, 62nd Infantry Regiment
        106th Anti-Tank Company

At 11:45 on 8/11/26, my VSCode instance broke and screwed up a huge amount of my code. I believe I have no choice but to revert the last five hours of changes in GitHub.
15 minutes later, I think I got everything under control, although I also probably spent another good 15 minutes just panicking before even writing the above message.

In late March, Rommel submitted requests for reinforcements that were intended to arrive for Gazala. These were mostly used to replace losses taken during Crusader and regularize the divisions.
For example, a tank company for the 5th Panzer Regiment arrived, as did the 707th Heavy Infantry Gun Company and the 11th (Infantry Gun) Company, 115th Rifle Regiment.
In addition, the 200th Pioneer Battalion received its 3rd Company, plus Hecker's 778th Landing Engineer Company. There were also many signals units sent.
Two final units sent over of interest were the headquarters and staff of the 104th Artillery Command and the 2nd Battalion, 115th Artillery Regiment, which may have lacked them previously.
This full document which also includes requests for reinforcements for the Italian units and other concerns is in "The Second Italo-German Counteroffensive", page 332-335.

Other documents from this book exist but I think I've gotten through most of the value. For instance there are some about British units but they tend to not be the most reliable in their information.
A good example of this is the Britsih 12th Division that was identified in the delta with the 36th and 37th Infantry Brigades and the 114th Field Regiment. In reality, this division had been disbanded in 1940.

It's worth noting that the Italian units that were operating near Matruh didn't attack it frontally until the encirclement was complete. Thus their losses were nearly nonexistent in this battle.
The X Corps spent the few days of battle making slow progress through the minefields, while the XXI Corps faced off against the enemy in an artillery duel with the infantry doing little to nothing.

Italian intelligence also made numerous failures prior to Gazala. We know that Rommel's German staff did no better and the whole plan for Operation Venice was poor but the Italians are not blameless.
For one, they had extremely outdated information regarding the British units, with many of the commanders who had changed in early 1942 not being accounted for. It was so bad that it's honestly comical.
Some of those mistakes include naming Godwin-Austen for XIII Corps, Brink for 1st South African Division, Lumsden for 7th Armoured Division, andGott for 1st Armoured Division.
They also wrong about the organization in many places. They thought the armoured divisions still had support groups and didn't realize the army tank brigades weren't just loose tank battalions/regiments.

The command organization between Umberto Barberis and the various 10th Army units is still kind of unclear. Barberis was meant to be commander of the frontier, but also appears as commander of Tobruk Fortress.
I think the most reasonable assumption for this is that he was initially in command of the frontier garrisons, but was redeployed to command Tobruk Fortress after the frontier was lost in the early war.

"The Italian Army Between the 1st and 2nd World Wars", another book from the Army Historical Office, has a lot of assorted data, charts, and maps from the 10th of June.
One interesting thing to note is that none of the guns in AFrica were rare. The 149/12 could be found in hundreds as could the 149/13 and 149/35, even though all of these guns were short in Africa.
On the other hand, the 149/19 was never found in Africa. This makes sense because apparently there was only a single one of these across the entire army. Why not just retire it?

The book also shows that the amount of artillery in the Italian divisions, while never a specialty, increased relative to the quantity of infantry battalions over time.
This is to challenge the idea that the binary division was a worse organization than the ternary or quaternary division. Artillery support is important and this shows a genuine trend toward better-built divisions.
Here are the numbers to prove it:
Quaternary Division (1918): 12 Infantry Battalions, 8 Artillery Batteries (0.67)
Ternary Division (1926): 9 Infantry Battalions, 12 Artillery Batteries (1.33)
Binary Division (1938): 6 Infantry Battalions, 9 Artillery Batteries (1.5)

Here are some other nations' 1940 or 1941 (1939 for Poland) divisions for comparison:
German Division: 9 Infantry Battalions, 9 Artillery Batteries (1)
Dutch Division: 9 Infantry Battalions, 9 Artillery Batteries (1)
Hungarian Division: 6 Infantry Battalions, 7 Artillery Batteries (1.17)
Polish Division: 9 Infantry Battalions, 10.5 Artillery Batteries (11 Batteries, but 2 have only 3 guns) (1.17)
American Division: 9 Infantry Battalions, 12 Artillery Batteries (1.33)
Japanese Division: 9 Infantry Battalions, 12 Artillery Batteries (1.33)
Belgian Division: 9 Infantry Battalions, 12 Artillery Batteries (Reserve divisions had only half as much) (1.33)
Soviet Division: 9 Infantry Battalions, 15 Artillery Batteries (1.67)
French Division: 9 Infantry Battalions, 15 Artillery Batteries (1.67)
Yugoslav Division: 9 Infantry Battalions, 16 Artillery Batteries (1.78)
British Division: 9 Infantry Battalions, 18 Artillery Troops (same size as an Italian battery) (2)

And some random divisions I ended up reading about anyway even though they didn't participate in the war:
Latvian Division: 9 Infantry Battalions, 3 Artillery Batteries (0.33)
Lithuanian Division: 9 Infantry Battalions, 6 Artillery Batteries (0.67)
Turkish Division: 9 Infantry Battalions, 6 Artillery Batteries (0.67)
(Yeah, the nations that didn't participate in the war had goods reasons to. Their armies were often underequipped and the lack of aritllery is an example of that)

The binary structure also had other advantages. Each one had 24 guns of 47/32 or 65/17 compared to the 20 that a ternary division would've had. These guns were also hopefully (but not always) more standardized.
Furthermore, it better fit the intentions of the tactical use of the division. The Italians didn't see it as the base maneuver unit and wanted each division to function more in terms of shock.
Rather, the corps would act as the basis of maneuver. This also bypassed the issue of poor commanders since divisional commanders were not given the difficult task of running a maneuver division.


