COMPASS:



Western Desert Force (16 Battalions)

7th Armoured Division (9 Battalions)
	4th Armoured Brigade (3 Battalions)
	7th Support Group (2 Infantry Battalions, 2 Artillery Battalions)
	3rd Battalion, Coldstream Guards
	7th Royal Tank Regiment

4th Indian Division (7 Battalions)
	11th Indian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	20th Australian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	6th Australian Division Cavalry (Light Tanks)



XXII Army Corps (36 Battalions)

2nd Blackshirt Battalion "Volontari della Libia"
140th Blackshirt Battalion "Aquilia"

Bignami Column (1 Battalion)
	155th Machine Gun Battalion
	2nd Group, 12th "Sila" Artillery Regiment

Independent Artillery (10 Battalions)
	10th Corps Artillery Regiment (2 Battalions (7,17))
	22nd Corps Artillery Regiment (1 Battalion (1))
	25th Corps Artillery Regiment (4 Heavy Battalions (105,130,148,150))
	55th "Brescia" Artillery Regiment (3 Battalions (1,2,3))

61st Infantry Division "Sirte" (10 Battalions)
	69th "Ancona" Infantry Regiment (3 Battalions)
	70th "Ancona" Infantry Regiment (3 Battalions)
	43rd Artillery Regiment (3 Battalions (1,2,3))
	61st Machine Gun Battalion

22nd Army Corps Frontier Guard Command (9 Battalions)
	31st Frontier Guard Coverage Sector (5 Battalions)
		31st/A Subsector (4 Static Machine Gun Companies)
		31st/B Subsector (2 Static Machine Gun Companies)
		31st Frontier Guard Artillery Regiment (3 Battalions (5,6,7) With (2,2,2) Companies)
	Frontier Guard Anti-Tank Group (3 Battalions, 3 Batteries)
	31st Libyan Coastal Infantry Battalion
	
4th Tank Infantry Regiment (3 Battalions)
	1st Medium Tank Battalion
	21st Light Tank Battalion (Later Reformed as 21st Medium Tank Battalion)
	61st Light Tank Battalion



As the war began, Italian Commander Pitassi Mannella of the XXII Army Corps discovered to his horror how unprepared his forces were for the attack he had been ordered to carry out.
He had, on paper, an effective corps of strength, but a lack of motorization and poor supply preparedness crippled his force to extreme levels.
In preparation for a defensive battle, he had gathered tons of artillery, but it wouldn't be able to support an advance of this scale.
In addition to his original Sirte Division, he had been given command over numerous frontier guard units, and he had more loose troops besides, but all were in a poor state.
Nevertheless, when the Sirte Division, headed by the 4th Tank Infantry Regiment, attacked, they made rapid progress, before their supply issues caught up.
Thus, this division and the accompanying tank regiment sat in their camps in the desert, barely supported by anything, least of all each other.

At this point, we can take a brief look at the dispositions of the various Italian elements. They were quite poor, despite Pitassi Mannella's best efforts.
The Guardia alla Frontiera, under the command of Umberto Barberis, had a subsector each in Tobruk and Bardia. A Libyan coastal battalion was far behind the lines at Cyrene.
The 10th, 22nd, 25th, 55th, and 1st/12th Artillery Reigments were spread out in a huge traffic jam all the way to Benghazi, with the 155th Machine Gun Battalion at Agedabia.
In reserve in Bardia was the 140th Blackshirt Battalion, while the 2nd "Volontari della Libia" Blackshirt battalion was moving up from Derna.
The 4th Tank Infantry Regiment with the 61st Machine Gun Battalion was deployed at the Nibeiwa camp, while the rest of the Sirte Division stayed between the Tummar and Sidi Barrani camps.

British forces in Egypt were caught off guard but wasted little time in preparing a response to the Italian invasion. Richard O'Connor's WDF was formed from what units were already in Egypt.
The powerful 7th Armoured Divison would lead the attack, followed by the 4th Indian Division, which consisted of assorted units that would be rotated in and out of the line.
The following operation would be nothing but a rout for the Italians, though they put up a decent fight a couple times.

First, the 7th Armoured Division circled around the positions of the 4th Tank Infantry Regiment, while the 11th Indian Infantry Brigade pinned Italian infantry in place.
The two light tank battalions were completely crushed, and 7th Armoured Division followed up with an attack against the blackshirts, causing them to disperse into the desert.
Their positions suddenly threatened, the units of the Sirte Division gathered up remannts of the destroyed units and retreated to the frontier.
There, they put up a brief stand, but were eventually broken and retreated further toward Bardia, where Blackshirts and frontier guard units became the garrison.
By now, the 11th Indian Infantry Brigade was sent away to recover from its light losses, replaced with some Australian elements.
The 20th Australian Infantry Brigade was fresh but not too experienced. It would soon prove, however, to be a elite formation.
When it attacked the defenses of Bardia, it easily cut through the central line and took the town. The units left in the defenses, now cut off, all surrendered.

The 69th Infantry Regiment of the Sirte Division was hardly any more lucky. On its way east it tried to link up with elements of the Savona Division, but was instead trapped in Tobruk.
There, Mannella had numerous corps artillery groups, three from the Sirte, three from the 55th "Brescia" Artillery Regiment and one loose.
In addition he had some blackshirts, bersaglieri, and tanks, but it still wasn't enough to stop the Australian attack supported by tanks and artillery.
The British captured Tobruk after a brief assault. Pitassi Mennella, elements of his Sirte Division and the 4th Tank Infantry Regiment, and tons of artillery surrendered.
Very little Italian strength was left. The WDF chased the last pieces of the Sirte Division east, cutting most of it off in the Cyrenaica bulge at Beda Fomm.
The last few tanks of the 21st Tank Battalion (now of medium variety) and the 3rd Battalion, 70th Infantry Regiment were trapped and destroyed, but they bought just enough time.
The Sirte Division's command, the 70th Regiment's command, and just two depleted battalions of infantry, one from each regiment, made it to safety.
When the British finally ran out of logistic momentum at El Agheila, it didn't take an expert to decide the battle's outcome.

Of all the units of XXII Army Corps, only the half-strength Sirte Division remained. What was once 40 Battalions was now 2 weak ones.
The British, however, had problems of their own. 7th Armoured Brigade was exhausted and suffered breakdowns, resulting in its replacement with 2nd Armoured Division.
4th Indian Division was also withdrawn, though it left behind the 20th Australian Infantry Brigade as Benghazi's garrison.
Now, at El Agheila, a single weak Italian division faced a single weak British division, the 2nd Armoured. Anything could tip the scales...



FALL OF TOBRUK:



XIII Corps (8 Battalions, 30 Companies)

7th Armored Division (4 Battalions, 14 Companies)
    7th Support Group (2 Battalions, 10 Companies)
        1st Battalion, King's Royal Rifle Corps
        2nd Battalion, Rifle Brigade
        M Battery, 3rd Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery
        C Battery, 4th Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery
    3rd Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery (3 Batteries (D,J,P))
    4th Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery (1 Battery (F))

4th Indian Division (4 Battalions, 16 Companies)
    20th Australian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions, 13 Companies)
        2/13th Australian Battalion
        2/15th Australian Battalion
        2/17th Australian Battalion
        20th Australian Anti-Tank Company
    A Squadron, 6th Australian Divisional Cavalry Regiment
    7th Royal Tank Regiment (2 Squadrons)



Group Barberis (20 Battalions, 60 Companies)

Artillery (7 Battalions, 20 Companies)
	22nd Army Corps Artillery Regiment (2 Battalions, 5 Companies)
        1st Group (2 100/17) (1 Battery Detached)
        Mixed Group
            Provisional Battery, 22nd Corps Group (105/28)
            2nd Battery, 1st/22nd Corps Group (100/17)
        Provisional Anti-Tank Battery (6 47/32)
	25th Army Corps Artillery Regiment (4 Battalions, 12 Companies)
        105th Group (3 149/13)
        130th Group (3 149/13)
        148th Group (4 149/13)
            3rd Battery, 150th/25th Corps Group
        150th Group (2 149/13) (1 Battery Detached)
    1st Group, 12th Artillery Regiment (3 Companies)

69th Infantry Regiment (3 Battalions, 13 Companies)
    1st Battalion (4 Companies)
    2nd Battalion (4 Companies)
    3rd Battalion (4 Companies)
    69th Infantry Gun Battery

4th Tank Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions, 5 Companies)
    1st Medium Tank Battalion (3 Companies, 39 M11/39s)
        1 Mobile Company (7 M11/39s)
        2 Immobile Companies (32M11/39s)
    63rd Light Tank Battalion (32 L3/35s)
        One Composite Company Each of the 21st and 63rd Light Tank Battalions, Both Immobilized

Eastern Libya Frontier Guard Command (8 Battalions, 16 Companies)
    31st Coverage Sector (5 Battalions, 13 Companies)
        31st Artillery Regiment (3 Battalions, 5 Batteries)
            5th Group (1 Battery)
                242nd Battery (4 120/25)
            6th Group (2 Batteries)
                230th Bis Battery (4 120/25)
                231st Bis Battery (4 120/25)
            7th Group (2 Batteries)
                244th Battery (4 149/35)
                245th Battery (4 149/35)
        31st/A Subsector (4 Strongpoints)
            Strongpoint Zeitun
            Strongpoint Sidi Daud
            Strongpoint Suesi
            Strongpoint Bir Junes
        31st/B Subsector (2 Strongpoints)
            Strongpoint Dahar el Azazi
            Strongpoint Bir Umm Haleiga
        Independent Strongpoint Hagfet Umm Haleiga
        Independent Strongpoint Ras El Meduauar
    Anti-Tank Group (3 Battalions, 3 Batteries)
        1st Group (1 Battery)
            249th Battery (4 75/27)
        2nd Group (1 Battery)
            246th Battery (4 77/28 + 1 Spare Gun)
        3rd Group (1 Battery)
            247th Battery (4 77/28 + 1 Spare Gun)

22nd Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company
61st Bersaglieri Motorcycle Company
25th Anti-Tank Battery (6 47/32)
141st Mortar Company (0 81/14)
142nd Mortar Company (0 81/14)
Floating Battery (Cruiser) "San Giorgio" (4 254/30, 4 190/45) ++++++++ - Stefano Pugliese



(Detailed Above)



SONNENBLUME:



Cyrenaica Command (13 Battalions)

2nd Armoured Division (10 Battalions)
	1st King's Dragoon Guards Armoured Cars
	3rd Armoured Brigade (4 Battalions)
		3rd Hussars
		5th Royal Tank Regiment
		6th Royal Tank Regiment
		2nd  Field Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery
	2nd Support Group (2 Battalions)
		1st Battalion, Tower Hamlets Rifles
		104th Field Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery
	3rd Indian Motor Brigade (3 Battalions)
		2nd Royal Lancers
		11th Prince Albert Victor's Own Cavalry (11th Frontier Force)
		18th King Edward VII's Own Cavalry

20th Australian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	2/13th Australian Battalion
	2/15th Australian Battalion
	2/17th Australian Battalion



Deutsches Afrika Korps (12 Battalions)

15th Panzer Division (6 Battalions) (Former Sperrverband Libyen)
	8th Panzer Regiment (2 Battalions)
	200th Regimental Staff z.b.V. (2nd Machine Gun Battalion)
	33rd Reconnaissance Battalion
	33rd Anti-Tank Battalion
	33rd Motorized Engineer Battalion

102nd Infantry Division "Trento" (6 Battalions)
	61st Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions)
	62nd Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions)



Rommel lands in Africa as commander of "Sperrverband Libyen", a barely-existing collection of loose units assembled to defend Tripolitania.
He has been sent here ostensibly to get rid of him. He is ordered by the high command to exclusively defend and little to nothing is expected, certainly not a major offensive.
Initially, it contains only the 33rd Reconnaissance and 33rd Anti-Tank Battalions, but Gerhard von Schwerin's 200th Regimental Staff z.b.V. is eventually sent with the 2nd Machine Gun Battalion to back him up.

With these few units, plus Italian elements, Rommel defies his orders and begins the attack.
The first unit ahead of him, 2nd Support Group, is spread out and opposes him with just 3 infantry companies and 2 artillery batteries.
Quickly surrounded, the 2nd Support Group withdraws and becomes combat ineffective. The 3rd Armoured Brigade is behind it but lacks the positioning to stop Rommel's advance.
Thus, the 3rd Armoured Brigade retreats, losing most of its remaining tanks to breakdowns and logistical problems on the way. Just a few tanks make it to Derna.
The 1st King's Dragoon Guards, on the southern flank, also end up retreating without having encountered any of the enemy.

With the enemy lines broken, Rommel splits up his 2 combat battalions over a wide area, while the 8th Panzer Regiment and 33rd Motorized Engineer Battalion begin to arrive.
To consolidate the various units now under Rommel's command, 15th Panzer Division is formed, with Heinrich von Prittwitz und Gaffron sent from Germany to command it.
Meanwhile, British commanders Neame, Gambier-Parry, and the arriving O'Connor recognize their division has been rendered ineffective.
3rd Indian Motor Brigade is sent forward to the junction of Mechili to guard the retreat, while the 20th Australian Infantry Brigade leaves Benghazi.
Australian rearguards hold up the 33rd Reconnaissance Battalion for a time before withdrawing, while 8th Panzer Regiment is stalled by logistics.
Rommel's hopes of cutting off the enemy seem dashed as his forces are delayed time and time again by the enemy, the weather, and the lack of supplies.

The Italian Trento division is split into two columns. One reaches Benghazi, finding it already demolished and the enemy nowhere in sight.
However, 2nd Machine Gun Battalion has avoided being slowed down. The commander, Voigtsberger, sends forward a detachment under Warrelmann toward the coast.
The 20th Australian Infantry Brigade makes it past Warrelmann, but various rear service elements and the generals Neame and O'Connor are captured by his force.
When the 8th Panzer Regiment and 33rd Reconaissance Battalion finally make it to Mechili, supported by Anti-Tank and Engineer elements, the 3rd Indian Motor Brigade is surrounded.
Seeing no way out, Gambier-Parry surrenders what remains. 2nd Armoured Division has been destroyed in the desert.

The remaining troops, including the Australians and some loose British units being brought up from Egypt, flee, either into Tobruk or to the frontier.
Rommel attacks Tobruk twice, once with his Italian troops and once with 2nd Machine Gun Battalion. Both attempts fail with significant losses, including von Prittwitz, replaced by von Esebeck.
Without the port, he can't advance past the frontier, but does send forward his 33rd Reconaissance Battalion to clear the 1st King's Royal Rifle Corps from the area.
The Axis lacking the manpower to assault Tobruk, while the British lack the force to relieve it. the front reaches a stalemate.



SIEGE OF TOBRUK:



Tobruk Fortress (6 Battalions, 22 Companies)

20th Australian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions, 14 Companies)
	2/13th Australian Battalion
	2/15th Australian Battalion
	2/17th Australian Battalion
	20th Australian Anti-Tank Company
	2/7th Australian Engineer Company

18th King Edward VII's Own Cavalry
Composite Regiment, 3rd Armoured Brigade (3rd Hussars Headquarters)
104th Field Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery (2 Batteries)
1 Battery of "Bush" Guns



First Attack Force (12 Battalions, 38 Companies)

Kampfgruppe Kirchheim (6 Battalions, 18 Companies)
	1st Battalion, 8th Panzer Regiment
	2nd Machine Gun Battalion
	15th Motorcycle Battalion
	2nd "Half and Half" Battalion, 33rd Artillery Regiment (1 Company)
	33rd Anti-Tank Battalion
61st "Sicilia" Infantry Regiment (3 Battalions, 11 Companies)
46th "Trento" Artillery Regiment (3 Battalions, 9 Companies)



This battle dominates the next three which take place concurrently. Thus it doesn't need its own narrative.



BREVITY:



Egyptian Frontier Command (32 Companies)

7th Support Group / Coast Group (8 Companies)
	2nd Battalion, Rifle Brigade (3 Companies)
	4th Royal Tank Regiment (2 Squadrons)
	60th (North Midland) Field Regiment, Royal Artillery (2 Batteries)
	12th Australian Anti-Tank Company
	
22nd Guards Brigade (12 Companies)
	1st Battalion, Durham Light Infantry "The Buffs" (4 Companies)
	2nd Battalion, Scots Guards (4 Companies)
	3rd Battalion, Coldstream Guards (4 Companies)

4th Armoured Brigade Group (12 Companies)
	1st King's Dragoon Guards Armoured Cars (3 Squadrons)
	6th Australian Division Cavalry (2 Squadrons)
	3 Jock Columns Formed From the 7th Support Group (2 Companies Each)
	A Company, 2nd Battalion, Rifle Brigade



Deutsches Afrika Korps (32 Companies)

7th Bersaglieri Regiment (9 Companies)
	Strongpoint Halfaya (4 Companies)
		1st Company, 10th Bersaglieri Battalion
		1st (Anti-Tank) Company, 551st Mixed Support Battalion
		2nd Company, 15th Motorcycle Battalion
		7th Battery, 46th Artillery Regiment
	Strongpoint Qalala (1 Company)
		2nd Company, 10th Bersaglieri Battalion
	Strongpoint Sollum (1 Company)
		1st Company, 11th Bersaglieri Battalion
	Strongpoint Musaid (3 Companies)
		2nd Company, 11th Bersaglieri Battalion
		9th (Anti-Tank) Company, 3rd Mixed Support Battalion, 61st Motorized Infantry Regiment
		6th Battery, 46th Artillery Regiment

61st Motorized Infantry Regiment (8 Companies)
	Strongpoint Capuzzo (1 Company)
		5th Company, 61st Motorized Infantry Regiment
	Strongpoint Bardia (7 Companies)
		1st Battalion, 61st Motorized Infantry Regiment (4 Companies)
		4th Group, 46th Artillery Regiment (3 Batteries)

Strongpoint Hafid (4 Companies)
	15th Motorcycle Battalion (1st, 3rd, 5th Companies)
	1st Company, 33rd Anti-Tank Battalion

Strongpoint 206 (1 Company)
	4th Company, 15th Motorcycle Battalion

Strongpoint Sidi Azeiz (3 Companies)
	2nd Battalion, 8th Panzer Regiment (3 Companies)

Kamfgruppe Cramer (4 Companies)
	1st Battalion, 8th Panzer Regiment (3 Companies)
	2nd Company, 33rd Anti-Tank Battalion

33rd Reconaissance Battalion (3 Companies)





(bersaglieri motorized)



As he besieges Tobruk, Rommel receives the remainder of the Trento division and additional elements of 15th Panzer Division, in the form of 15th Motorcycle Battalion and some artillery.
While still intending to take the port, he needs to guard the frontier with more than just reconaissance units, sending some light Italian elements there.
The British see the weak frontier defenses and begin plans to retake the positions to have forward progress toward Tobruk for later.
For this purpose, elements of 7th Armoured Division are brought up, organized under the command of William "Strafer" Gott, as well as 22nd Guards Brigade.
Noel Beresford-Pierse, commander of the WDF, acting on Wavell's directive, gives Gott the order to plan and execute the attack.

Three parallel columns are formed, each roughly a brigade in strength. All three are to advance at once and overrun the frontier positions.
However, Italian and German defenders fight harder than expected. At the Halfaya Pass, the Italian garrison holds their positions for more than a day.
Fort Capuzzo and Sidi Omar are also taken, pushing back more elements of the Trento division. 33rd Reconaissance Battalion was also dispersed from the frontier.
However, the slow pace of the operation resulted in plenty of time for a German response under Von Herff to appear. His Kampfgruppe, with a Panzer Battalion and support elements, halted the 22nd Guards Brigade.
With enemy strength growing, as Kampfgruppen Cramer and Esebeck following up Herff, combined with severe tank losses due to poor tactics, Gott is persuaded to call off the attack.
Most remaining positions are abandoned as they cannot be held. Only the Halfaya Pass has been taken successfully, and it will be soon lost to Operation Skorpion.
Brevity is a failure, but not a decisive one.



BATTLEAXE:



Western Desert Force (20 Battalions)

7th Armoured Division (8 Battalions)
	1st King's Dragoon Guards Armoured Cars
	4th Armoured Brigade (2 Battalions)
	7th Support Group (2 Infantry Battalions, 3 Artillery Battalions)

4th Indian Division (6 Battalions)
	11th Indian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	22nd Guards Brigade (3 Battalions)

Tobruk Garrison (6 Battalions)
	20th Australian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	18th King Edward VII's Own Cavalry
	3rd Hussars
	104th Field Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery



Deutsches Afrika Korps (20 Battalions)

15th Panzer Division (8 Battalions)
	8th Panzer Regiment (2 Battalions)
	15th Infantry Brigade (2 Battalions)
		200th Regimental Staff z.b.V. (2nd Machine Gun Battalion, 15th Motorcycle Battalion)
	33rd Reconnaissance Battalion
	33rd Engineer Battalion
	1st Battalion, 33rd Artillery Regiment
	33rd Anti-Tank Battalion

102nd Infantry Division "Trento" (12 Battalions)
	61st Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions, 1 Mixed Support Battalion)
	62nd Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions, 1 Mixed Support Battalion)
	7th Motorized Bersaglieri Regiment (3 Battalions)
	46th Artillery Regiment (3 Battalions (1,3,4))



With the failure of Brevity, Wavell needs Battleaxe to be a success. Tobruk must be relivied for him to keep his job. Beresford-Pierse is in the same boat.
This time, the 4th Indian Division with the 11th Indian Infantry Briade has been brought up as reinforcements, and the 7th Armoured reorganized.
With Brevity being not too much of a concern, the Axis don't see the need to make their own reorganizations. More elements have arrived, but are just added to existing formations.
However, while the units haven't changed, the commanders have. Esebeck is gone, temporarily replaced by Herff while the new 15th Panzer Division Commander, Neumann-Silkow, travels to Africa.
When Neumann-Silkow arrives, he changes up doctrines, while Herff leaves to go join the SS. There are some other lower officer reorganizations as well.

The British attack begins all across the line at once. The 11th Indian Brigade surrounds the Halfaya Pass as two groups while 22nd Guards Brigade heads for Capuzzo.
Most of the frontier positions fall rapidly, except for the pass. There, 15th Motorcycle Battalion's elements fight hard, repelling several assaults.
Positions like Points 206 and 208 are contested hotly for a few hours, but their German and Italian garrisons are eventually forced to withdraw or surrender.
While the Indian troops are tied down, the British are secure at Capuzzo. When 8th Panzer Regiment appears from the north, they defeated its attack handily.
Cramer, commander of 8th Panzer Regiment, was wounded and replaced temporarily by Ramsauer. So far, the German response has been poor.

But things look much bleaker for British troops on the desert flank. There, 4th Armoured Brigade strike the Hafid Ridge, only to find it covered in Anti-Tank guns.
The brigade takes significant losses and makes no gains. 7th Support Group remains evern further south, providing the tanks little to no support. British reconnaissance does even less.
Recognizing the failure of his panzers, Rommel forms a larger Kampfgruppe from the 15th Panzer Division and takes personal charge, moving to the flank.
There, he smashes 4th Armored Brigade just as von Herff did in Brevity. Messervy makes the decision to withdraw 22nd Guards Brigade without orders.
By now, the support group has managed to join the rest of the 7th Armoured Division, temporarily halting Rommel.
But either way, it's quite apparent by now that the battle plan has completely unraveled. The Halfaya Pass still hasn't even been taken.
Wavell gives the order for his forces to retreat from their gains. Once again Rommel has repelled the British with his superior doctrine, tactics, and leadership.



SOMMERNACHTSTRAUM:



8th Army (15 Battalions)

XXX Corps (6 Battalions)

1st King's Dragoon Guards Armoured Cars
7th Support Group (2 Infantry Battalions, 3 Artillery Battalions)

70th Infantry Division (9 Battalions)
	Polish Independent Carpathian Rifle Brigade (4 Polish Battalions, 1 Czechoslovak Battalion, 1 Australian Battalion, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	3rd Hussars
	104th Field Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery



Deutsches Afrika Korps (25 Battalions)

15th Panzer Division (6 Battalions)
	Kampfgruppe Cramer (2 Battalions)
		1st Battalion, 8th Panzer Regiment
		1st Battalion, 33rd Artillery Regiment
	Kampfgruppe Warrelmann (3 Battalions)
		2nd Machine Gun Battalion
		33rd Anti-Tank Battalion
		2nd Battalion, 33rd Artillery Regiment
	Kampfgruppe Panzenhagen (1 Battalion)
		3rd Battalion, 347th Infantry Regiment

Divisional Command z.b.V. "Afrika" (7 Battalions)
	2nd Battalion, 8th Panzer Regiment
	15th Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
		115th Motorized Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
		200th Regimental Staff z.b.V. (15th Motorcycle Battalion)
	33rd Reconnaissance Battalion
	33rd Artillery Regiment (1 Heavy Battalion)
	33rd Motorized Engineer Battalion

102nd Infantry Division "Trento" (12 Battalions)
	61st Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions, 1 Mixed Support Battalion)
	62nd Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions, 1 Mixed Support Battalion)
	7th Motorized Bersaglieri Regiment (3 Battalions)
	46th Artillery Regiment (3 Battalions (1,3,4))
	551st Mixed Support Battalion (Machine Gun Company, Mortar Company, Anti-Tank Company)



Planning his own assault on Tobruk, Rommel decides to launch a raid to make sure the British won't attack first.
He also intends to destroy a British supply dump to deny them its contents, but reconaissance shows him it's already gone.
They are, in fact, planning to attack first, but Auchinleck has prepared a trap by planting fake documents for Rommel to find on the reconaissance.
The three Kampfgruppen for the raid set out and are quickly troubled by supply issues and air attack. Repeated harassment forces them to stay on the defensive often.
Eventually, Kampfgruppe Cramer stumbles upon the planted documents. Satisfied with his prize, Rommel orders his troops to only probe a little farther before turning back.
Overall, nothing had been accomplished. The only thing the raid had done was find misinformation.



CRUSADER:



8th Army (38 Battalions)

XXX Corps (19 Battalions)

7th Armoured Division (10 Battalions)
	1st King's Dragoon Guards Armoured Cars
	4th Armoured Brigade Group (3 Armoured Battalions, 1 Infantry Battalion, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	7th Support Group (2 Infantry Battalions, 2 Artillery Battalions)

1st South African Division (8 Battalions)
	1st South African Infantry Brigade (3 Infantry Battalions)	
	5th South African Infantry Brigade (3 Infantry Battalions)
	3rd South African Field Regiment
	4th South African Field Regiment
	Machine Gun Battalion "President Steyn"

XIII Corps (20 Battalions)

2nd New Zealand Division (10 Battalions)
	28th (Maori) New Zealand Infantry Battalion
	4th New Zealand Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	5th New Zealand Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	4th New Zealand Field Regiment
	5th New Zealand Field Regiment

70th Infantry Division (10 Battalions)
	Polish Independent Carpathian Rifle Brigade (4 Polish Battalions, 1 Czechoslovak Battalion, 1 Australian Battalion, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	32nd Army Tank Brigade (2 Battalions)
	104th Field Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery



Oasis Force (4 Battalions)
	29th Indian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	6th South African Armoured Car Regiment



Reinforcements (8 Battalions, Arrived)

2nd New Zealand Division Reinforcements (6 Battalions)
	27th New Zealand Machine Gun Battalion
	6th New Zealand Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	6th New Zealand Field Regiment
	7th New Zealand Anti-Tank Regiment

22nd Guards Brigade (2 Battalions)



Deutsches Afrika Korps (14 Battalions)

15th Panzer Division (11 Battalions)
	8th Panzer Regiment (2 Battalions)
	15th Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
		115th Motorized Infantry Regiment (1 Battalion)
		200th Regimental Staff z.b.V. (2nd Machine Gun Battalion, 15th Motorcycle Battalion)
	33rd Reconnaissance Battalion
	33rd Artillery Regiment (1 Battalion, 1 Half-and-Half Battalion, 1 Heavy Battalion)
	33rd Motorized Engineer Battalion
	33rd Anti-Tank Battalion

Divisional Command z.b.V. "Afrika" (3 Battalions)
	2nd Battalion, 115th Motorized Infantry Regiment (Detached From 15th Panzer Division)
	3rd Battalion, 347th Infantry Regiment
	300th "Oasis" Battalion Staff z.b.V. (6th and 12th Oasis Companies, 2nd Company, 39th Engineer Battalion, 580th Reconnaissance Company)



XXII Army Corps (28 Battalions)

Army Corps Reconnaissance Regrouping (RECA) (6 Battalions)
	52nd Medium Tank Battalion (1 Company)
	"Romolo Gessi" Motorcycle Battalion, Italian Africa Police (1 Armoured Car Company, 2 Motorcycle Companies)
	Infantry Regiment "Giovani Fascisti" (2 Motorized Militia Battalions)
	Flying Batteries Regrouping (RBV) (2 Motorized Artillery Battalions (1,3))

55th Infantry Division "Savona" (10 Battalions)
	15th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	16th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	"Di Bardi" Task Force (2 Battalions, Detached from 15th and 16th Infantry Regiments)
	12th Artillery Regiment (2 Battalions (2,3))
		8th Independent Coastal Artillery Battery
		27th Independent Coastal Artillery Battery
		503rd Independent Coastal Artillery Battery
		504th Independent Coastal Artillery Battery
	4th Machine Gun Battalion, "Genova Cavalleria" Regiment
	155th Machine Gun Battalion

102nd Infantry Division "Trento" (12 Battalions)
	61st Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions, 1 Mixed Support Battalion)
	62nd Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions, 1 Mixed Support Battalion)
	7th Motorized Bersaglieri Regiment (2 Battalions)
	46th Artillery Regiment (3 Battalions (1,3,4))
	551st Mixed Support Battalion (Machine Gun Company, Mortar Company, Anti-Tank Company)



Reinforcements (8 Battalions, Failed to Arrive)

Sonderverband 288 (2 Battalions)

61st Infantry Division "Sirte" (6 Battalions)
	69th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	70th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	Frontier Guards Artillery Regrouping "Sirte" (2 Battalions (323,324))



Prep

After Operation Battleaxe had run its course, both sides took some time to reflect on how things had gone.
For Rommel, while the battle had been an unquestioned victory, he was still no closer to taking Tobruk. He was also unsatisfied with the performance of the Italian garirsons.
More training could partially solve these problems, but Rommel identified the other major problem as that lack of German Infantry. Thus he requested a Motorized Division from the High Command.
What he received, however, was far from satisfactory. When the Divisional Command z.b.V. "Afrika" arrived, only two battalions which had been previously transported to Africa were given to it.
In fact, not a single higher organization, be it a regiment or brigade, ended up with the division. It was little more than a regimental Kampfgruppe of loose units.
But at the very least, it was better than nothing. Rommel originally sent it to the frontier to take over for the battered units of the Trento division.

This wouldn't last, because the second Italian division in the theatre began to arrive.
This was the 55th "Savona" Infantry Division, which wasn't motorized. In comparison, the Trento Division could at least claim to be motorized, though this was true only on paper.
Still, the arrival of fresh infantry (who had just marched across the entirety of Cyrenaica) with decent numbers (unlike the Afrika Division) was welcomed.
They took over the frontier sector next, as it was hoped the Afrika Division, while weak, could, with Italian backup, lead the next assault on Tobruk.
This increase in strength indicated that it was time for some consolidation. XXII Army Corps was reformed under Enea Navarini's command, taking control of all Italian troops in the sector.
To command both this corps and the DAK, a new Panzergruppe Afrika was formed with Rommel promoted to this command. Ludwig Crüwell became the DAK commander.

THe Italians were further reinforced by the arrival of the XXII Army Corps's Reconaissance Raggruppamento with a mixed force of battalions.
However, the Sirte Division which had by now been rebuilt from its destruction during Operation Compass was unable to reach the battle in time.
Similarly, Sonderverband 288, an elite force prepared for aiding the Iraq Rebellion, was diverted to Africa but also failed to enter Africa in 1941 except for a single company-sized detachment.
Still, while not all reinforcements had arrived as hoped, Rommel's new Panzer Army commanded an impressive force of 42 battalions.

The British were reinforcing heavily too. The WDF had become large enough that it necessitated a renaming to XIII corps, with a new XXX corps being established, both now under 8th Army.
New commanders were also found. Beresford-Pierse was sent to the Sudan with Godwin-Austen becoming XIII corps commander. Alan Cunningham, victor of East Africa, took command of the new army.
Things for XXX corps went a little less well. The first pick, Vyvyan Pope, was killed in an air crash, so the cavalryman Willoughby Norrie was placed in charge.
4th Indian Division, battered, was pulled out of the line to refit, but the top-quality 2nd New Zealand Division replaced it, packing 15 Battalions, though not all arrived yet.
22nd Guards Brigade, while beaten, was still itching to fight, and was sent south to guard the supply dumps for the battle. It did lose one of its battalions, however.
That battalion, plus some artillery, was added to 4th Armoured Brigade, which now fielded three armoured battalions, though some of its tanks were light US M3s.

To back up 7th Armoured Division and guard its flank, so that hte 7th Support Group could actually do some supporting, the 1st South African Division was brought up.
It was a little weak, though, as its 2nd South African Infantry Brigade had taken enough losses that it was left in Matruh as a garrison.
Finally, political pressures forced the Australians to leave Tobruk. They left behind severe casualties but made it out without trouble.
Their replcaement was the Polish Independent Carpathian Rifle Brigade with 5 battalions, which incorporated a Czechoslovak battalion and one remaining Australian battalion.
Further backup arrived in Tobruk in the form of the 32nd Army Tank Brigade with 2 battalions of infantry tanks. The two brigades necessitated the formation of a division, Scobie's 70th.
Thus, with a total of four divisions and an independent brigade, the upgrading of the 8th Army was complete. Now it had what it took to hopefully compete with the 15th Panzer Division.

Battle

The British attack plan was far from airtight, suffering from the fact that it wasn't really an offensive at all. There was no attempt to hold the initiative.
Armoured cars with tanks behind them pushed back the German Reconaissance units quickly and cleared the path to Gabr Saleh, where 7th Armoured Division concentrated.
Their southern flank was supported by both South African brigades, while the two New Zealand brigades moved up at Halfaya and Sidi Omar, destroying the enemy at the latter.
Despite this success, in which an Italian battalion of the Savona Division with a supporting German Oasis company was wiped out, the enemy failed to appear.

7th Armoured division was now left without a directive. The Crusader plan had already unraveled. Gott kept his tanks where they were, while the Support Group headed north.
Meanwhile, the 1st South African Brigade assaulted Bir el Gubi. The infantry expected an easy fight against the Italians but were proven wrong.
The Giovani Fascisti regiment, part of RECA, cut down the attackers with heavy fire while concealed batteries bombarded them. The South Africans made no progress.
Finally, with the reports from his reconaissance coming in, Crüwell was able to send the Panzers south, forming Kampfgruppe Cramer around 8th Panzer Regiment and support units.
At Gabr Saleh, Cramer tried to defeat 4th Armoured Brigade, but poor positioning in the terrain held him back. The battle was inconclusive.

Meanwhile, 7th Support Group reached Sidi Rezegh. The only Axis force there was a single Bersaglieri company that was quickly defeated.
Sümmermann reacted quickly, pulling the 3rd Battalion, 347th Infantry Regiment back from its positions in the siege lines of Tobruk and sending it south.
With the 2nd Battalion, 115th Motorized Infantry Regiment and some loose companies, both Italian and German, Kampfgruppe Panzenhagen was formed.
This force managed to blunt the northward momentum of 7th Support Group, though not without sustaining significant losses against the more experienced infantry.
By this time, Panzenhagen's complaints had been heard. 15th Panzer Division, arriving in force at Gabr Saleh, turned north and struck the Support Group from the rear.
It was a massacre. The support group lost some companies as well as an entire artillery battalion. 4th Armoured Brigade attempted to help but didn't make it in time.
By the time Kampfgruppen Cramer and Menny (115th Motorized Infantry Regiment) withdrew, screened by armored cars, they had battered their enemy and won the day.
Also, at this time, 5th South African Brigade had been called up to give 7th Armoured Division more infantry, passing by the positions of the 1st South African Brigade.

But it wasn't over. Overnight, the 15th Panzer Division moved to attack the support group from the west, and managed to capture the headquarters of 4th Armoured Brigade, though not its commander.
Believing they had nearly won the battle, Crüwell aimed to deliver a crushing blow using all his units in conjuction with the Italians, surrounding the 7th Armoured Division's remnants.
But by this time, events at the frontier had turned against the Axis. 4th and 5th New Zealand Brigade hemmed in de Giorgis's Savona troops, while the 6th New Zealand Brigade turned north.
It drove into Bir el Chleta, capturing Crüwell's own headquarters. But the general, just like Gatehouse, made it out safely and continued to lead his men.
Outflanking the 7th Armoured Division, the 15th Panzer Division formed two columns, each with an infantry regiment and a panzer battalion. The Bersaglieri were on its left.
Together, they drove straight into the 5th South African Brigade. While hit by heavy fire, they overran the brigade's box and defeated 4th Armoured Brigade's counterattacks.
By now, it looked like the Axis had won the battle. 7th Armoured division was battered, and 1st South African Division was half gone.
XXX Corps barely existed now. If it was beaten one more time, there would be nothing left to protect XIII Corps from a Panzer assault.

Crüwell wanted to launch a head-on attack at the remnants of the 7th Armoured Division. But Rommel had something else in mind.
The Savona Division, surrounded at the frontier and at Bardia, had multiple times asked for support. Now, he thought, was the time to offer it.
Without time to rest, the 15th Panzer Division set off, straight through the positions of 7th Support Group, and passing north of 1st South African Brigade.
British rear area elements and headquarters retreated in its wake, a few getting captured, but 15th Panzer Division moved so quickly that it split into pieces.
The first elements reached Sidi Omar, attacking the New Zealanders there and doing some damage, but were unable to break through to the frontier garrisons.
At this time, 6th New Zealand Brigade, with a few supporting battalions, had siezed Point 175 from Kampfgruppe Panzenhagen. Rommel's communications officer, Westphal, demanded he return.
So he did. The 15th Panzer Division's component groups moved north from Sidi Omar (which they hadn't taken), before heading back west toward Tobruk.
At Bardia they left behind some companies, while at Sidi Azeiz they captured 5th New Zealand Brigade's headquarters, including Brigadier Hargest.
That was the only successful operation at the frontier. 15th Panzer had made it out, but was disorganized and short of supply.
Rommel's "Dash to the Wire", as it was called, had failed to destroy the New Zealand Division and had given up the initiative. But it almost worked.

By this time, Cunningham's weak leadership had become apparent, and Auchinleck had him replaced with the less experienced but loyal Neil Ritchie.
With the 6th New Zealand Brigade nearby, the Tobruk garrison finally launched its attack. Against strong Italian opposition, the Polish Brigade broke out.
It eventually linked up with the New Zealanders, trapping the Italian 16th Infantry Regiment on the coast. But the connection was tenuous.
15th Panzer Division was on its way back, sending its forward Kampfgruppe Geißler toward the New Zealander rear, while Kampfgruppe Panzenhagen attacked from the south with Bersaglieri support.
The attacks were devastating. Barrowclough's men fought hard but they were now the surrounded ones. Two battalions disintegrated and most of the artillery was destroyed.
4th Armoured Brigade and the 1st South African Brigade attempted to offer support, but were blocked either by Panzenhagen or the Italians. Neither did anything.
Without help, the 6th New Zealand brigade had no choice but to pull out overnight, leaving the battle for good. 1st South African Brigade also swapped positions with 22nd Guards Brigade.

While another enemy brigade had been crushed, the Axis only faced increased pressure. 7th Armoured Division had recovered, and the Guards Brigade attacked Bir el Gubi.
But most pressing of all was the issue of the frontier garrisons. They had still not been relived, and time was running out.
That was the task given to Kampfgruppe Geißler, with 15th Motorcycle Battalion, an anti-tank company, and some artillery. However, a New Zealand ambush defeated the force.
At the same time, Kampfgruppen Menny and Cramer went south to rescue Bir el Gubi, but while the Giovani Fascisti Regiment held their position, the German counterattack failed.
In the process, Neumann-Silkow was wounded, replaced by Menny. Menny had also earlier replaced Zincke who had been killed, so he now held three levels of command.
Either way, these failures exhausted German strength. Kampfgruppe Panzenhagen and the 7th Bersaglieri Regiment pushed back the Polish, but they too were exhausted.
The 4th Armoured Brigade had recovered up to 60 tanks. Cramer had twelve. Menny saw no option but to retreat from Bir el Gubi.
When he told Rommel this, the geenral recognized reality. Supplies and reinforcements wouldn't be forthcoming. He had no choice but to fall back.

Covered by expert rearguards under Kampfgruppe Eder, the 15th Panzer Division retreated from Bir el Gubi. The Italians of RECA and the Trento Division also got away.
The Afrika Division, which was really just Kampfgruppe Panzenhagen, also retreated, though on the way Sümmermann was killed by an air attack.
The retreat otherwise went smoothly. Rommel's troops lined up as planned along the unfinished Gazala defenses, chased by the Polish Brigade, 7th Armoured Division, and 22nd Guards Brigade.
Battles on the new line didn't go badly, but the line could easily be outflanked. Recognizing the impossibility of defense, the Axis fell back once again.
The British attempted to cut off the Axis like they had during Operation Compass, but the attempt by 7th Support Group failed and they got away.
Defending briefly at Agedabiya, the last German forces retreated back to El Agheila by the end of 1941.

This left just the frontier garrisons still fighting in Cyrenaica, besieged in their positions by the 4th and 5th New Zealand Brigades.
Bardia was defended by 2 infantry battalions and parts of the 4th Machine Gunners Group "Genova Cavalleria", with a few leftover German companies there too.
German general Artur Schmitt was responsible for the defense, commanding an ad-hoc "Brigade Bardia". After an assault captured his last water supply, he surrendered.
The Halfaya-Sollum sector was commanded by Fidele di Giorgis. It still had one infantry battalion and one machine gun battalion, the rest of the Genova Cavalleria, and 6th Oasis Company.
It held out a little longer than Bardia, with Sollum and Halfaya both withstanding assaults. But the lack of water again forced them to give in.
Crusader had been a mess, but the British had won it. Rommel was back to his starting point and his losses were near catastrophic.



TOBRUK BREAKOUT:



70th Infantry Division (10 Battalions)
	Polish Independent Carpathian Rifle Brigade (4 Polish Battalions, 1 Czechoslovak Battalion, 1 Australian Battalion, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	32nd Army Tank Brigade (2 Battalions)
	104th Field Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery



Tobruk Siege Force (14 Battalions)

Divisional Command z.b.V. "Afrika" (4 Battalions)
	16th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions, Detached From Savona Division)
	Kampfgruppe Panzenhagen (2 Battalions)
		3rd Battalion, 347th Infantry Regiment
		11th Motorized Bersaglieri Battalion

102nd Infantry Division "Trento" (10 Battalions)
	61st Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions, 1 Mixed Support Battalion)
	62nd Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions, 1 Mixed Support Battalion)
	46th Artillery Regiment (3 Battalions (1,3,4))
	551st Mixed Support Battalion (Machine Gun Company, Mortar Company, Anti-Tank Company)



(Detailed Above)



STAND AT GAZALA:



8th Army (22 Battalions)

XIII Corps (22 Battalions)

7th Armoured Division (7 Battalions)
	4th Armoured Brigade Group (1 Armoured Battalion, 1 Infantry Battalion, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	7th Support Group (2 Infantry Battalions, 2 Artillery Battalions)

4th Indian Division (5 Battalions)
	11th Indian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	200th Guards Brigade (2 Battalions)

5th New Zealand Brigade (3 Battalions)
Polish Independent Carpathian Rifle Brigade (4 Polish Battalions, 1 Czechoslovak Battalion, 1 Australian Battalion, 1 Artillery Battalion)



Deutsches Afrika Korps (8 Battalions)

15th Panzer Division (7 Battalions)
	8th Panzer Regiment (1 Battalion)
	15th Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
		2nd Battalion, 115th Infantry Regiment
		33rd Artillery Regiment (1 Battalion, 1 Heavy Battalion)
	115th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	33rd Anti-Tank Battalion
	33rd Reconnaissance Battalion



XXII Army Corps (10 Battalions)

Flying Batteries Regrouping (RBV) (2 Motorized Artillery Battalions (1,3))

102nd Infantry Division "Trento" (8 Battalions)
	61st Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions, 1 Mixed Support Battalion)
	62nd Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions, 1 Mixed Support Battalion)
	7th Bersaglieri Regiment (2 Battalions)
	46th Artillery Regiment (2 Battalions (1,3))



(Detailed Above)



REDUCTION OF THE FRONTIER:



2nd New Zealand Division (5 Battalions)
	28th (Maori) New Zealand Infantry Battalion
	4th New Zealand Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	4th New Zealand Field Regiment

2nd South African Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)



55th Infantry Division "Savona" (4 Battalions)
	3rd Battalion, 15th Infantry Regiment/
	15th Mortar Company
	3rd Battalion, 12th Artillery Regiemnt (3 Batteries)
	155th Machine Gun Battalion (2 Companies)
	300th "Oasis" Battalion Staff z.b.V. (6th and 12th Oasis Companies)

Division Bardia (4 Battalions)
	2nd Battalion, 15th Infantry Regiment (Minus One Company)
	2nd Battalion, 16th Infantry Regiment
	4th Machine Gun Battalion, "Genova Cavalleria" Regiment
	2nd Company, 39th Engineer Battalion



(Detailed Above)



SECOND SONNENBLUME:



8th Army (15 Battalions)

XIII Corps (15 Battalions)

7th Armoured Division (10 Battalions)
	1st King's Dragoon Guards Armoured Cars
	4th Armoured Brigade Group (3 Armoured Battalions, 1 Infantry Battalion, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	7th Support Group (2 Infantry Battalions, 2 Artillery Battalions)

4th Indian Division (5 Battalions)
	11th Indian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	200th Guards Brigade (2 Battalions)



Deutsches Afrika Korps (8 Battalions)

15th Panzer Division (5 Battalions)
	8th Panzer Regiment (1 Battalion)
	33rd Artillery Regiment (2 Battalions)
	33rd Anti-Tank Battalion
	33rd Reconnaissance Battalion

90th Light Division (3 Battalions)
	115th Motorized Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	3rd Battalion, 347th Infantry Regiment



XXII Army Corps (12 Battalions)

102nd Infantry Division "Trento" (6 Battalions)
	61st Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions)
	62nd Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions)
	46th Artillery Regiment (2 Battalions (1,3))

61st Infantry Division "Sirte" (6 Battalions)
	69th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	70th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	Frontier Guards Artillery Regrouping "Sirte" (2 Battalions (323,324))



When his troops returned to El Agheila, Rommel had to reckon with their miserable state.
Of the Savona Division, only one weak regiment, the 16th, with two battalions remained. It was disbanded to refill the Trento and Sirte Divisions.
Speaking of the Sirte Division, it was finally rated strong enough for use. So, at the very least, the Savona Division would be partially replaced.
The Trento Division had also taken severe losses and disbanded 3 battalions, and its Bersaglieri Regiment had to be sent to the rear, but the rest could still fight.

German units were also quite beaten. 15th Panzer Division had about 15 panzers left and the infantry were at half strenght or less. Many support battalions were also depleted.
Most of the near-destroyed units would be kept back to rebuild, but most of the division could still fight. The Afrika Division, on the other hand, had just a single battalion.
Rommel thought he wouldn't be able to launch another attack for months until the depleted units could be restored. The British would prove him wrong.

Just when he had won a decisive victory, Ritchie had no choice but to reduce his frontline strength.
Most of his divisions were battered, and logistics all the way up to El Agheila were difficult to manage, especially with Benghazi's port bombed.
Only the XIII Corps could be maintained out there, with its two divisions, the weak 7th Armoured Division, and the returning 4th Indian Division.
At the frontline, things were even worse. Only 7th Support Group and 22nd Guards Brigade (renumbered to the 200th) were left.

So, when Axis forces advanced once again, resistance was far from impressive. The two brigades were quickly split from each other and routed.
But, the exhaustion of the 15th Panzer Division still showed, as it was unable to prevent the enemy from escaping Rommel's attempted trap.
Still, with the British line broken, and their reserves out of position, not much could be done to stop the fall of Benghazi.
The Italians, with Kampfgruppe Marcks (formed from elements of both German divisions) at their head, marched into the city.
The 11th Indian Infantry Brigade, there, was forced to conduct demolitions and flee back to Gazala.
Just weeks after losing all of Cyrenaica, it was back in Rommel's hands, though now he faced the formidable Gazala line.



GAZALA:



8th Army (40 Battalions)

XXX Corps (19 Battalions)

7th Armoured Division (15 Battalions)
	1st King's Dragoon Guards Armoured Cars
	4th Armoured Brigade Group (3 Armoured Battalions, 1 Infantry Battalion, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	7th Motor Brigade (3 Infantry Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	201st Guards Brigade (4 Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)

3rd Indian Motor Brigade (3 Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)

XIII Corps (22 Battalions)

1st South African Division (11 Battalions)
	1st South African Infantry Brigade (3 Infantry Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	2nd South African Infantry Brigade (3 Infantry Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	2nd Battalion, General Botha Regiment
	Machine Gun Battalion "President Steyn"
	6th South African Armoured Car Regiment

4th Indian Infantry Division (8 Battalions)
	11th Indian Infantry Brigade (3 Infantry Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	29th Indian Infantry Brigade (3 Infantry Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)

32nd Army Tank Brigade (2 Battalions)



Deutsches Afrika Korps (16 Battalions)

15th Panzer Division (10 Battalions)
	8th Panzer Regiment (2 Battalions)
	115th Motorized Infantry Regiment (3 Battalions)
	33rd Reconnaissance Battalion
	33rd Artillery Regiment (1 Battalion, 1 Half-and-Half Battalion, 1 Heavy Battalion)
	33rd Anti-Tank Battalion

90th Light Division (3 Battalions)
	Sonderverband 288 (2 Battalions)
	580th Reconnaissance Company

15th Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	200th Regimental Staff z.b.V. (2 Battalions)
	33rd Motorized Engineer Battalion (Attached From 15th Panzer Division)



XXII Army Corps (19 Battalions)

7th Motorized Bersaglieri Regiment (2 Battalions)
Infantry Regiment "Giovani Fascisti" (2 Motorized Militia Battalions)
Flying Batteries Regrouping (RBV) (2 Motorized Artillery Battalions (14,15))

102nd Infantry Division "Trento" (7 Battalions)
	61st Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	62nd Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	46th Artillery Regiment (2 Battalions (1,3))
	551st Mixed Support Battalion (Machine Gun Company, Mortar Company, Anti-Tank Company)

61st Infantry Division "Sirte" (6 Battalions)
	69th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	70th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	Frontier Guards Artillery Regrouping "Sirte" (2 Battalions (323,324))



Between January and May 1942, the Axis had plenty of time to figure out how they were going to break the Gazala line.
On the other hand, the British, who used this time to bring up numerous units, were thinking about how to make it unbreakable.
4th Indian Division, battered, is kept in reserve, because the 1st South African Division, now with three brigades, is to defend the line.
Behind it lies 32nd Army Tank Brigade, with more than hundred heavy tanks. All these units are part of XIII Corps.
XXX Corps forms the mobile reserve behind them. It contains the veteran 7th Armoured Division, with the 200th Guards Briagde (renumbered to the 201th).
In addition, XXX Corps can count on the reformed 3rd Indian Motor Brigade to secure its southern flank.

However, while the deployments seem secure, the British have made some fundamental mistakes with their overall plan.
They expect that Rommel will have no choice but to attack directly into the line, not realizing the "box" defenses could be outflanked.
He plans to exploit this to the great possible degree using both of his German divisions to loop around the enemy flank.
The Afrika Division has been rebuilt as the 90th Light Divison following the arrival of Sonderverband 288, and the 15th Panzer Division has been reorganized as well.
That is, except for the 200th Regiment, which remains deficient in transport so will remain along the coast in 15th Infantry Brigade.
The two Italian divisions will tie down the enemy on the line, pinning them in place for the panzers to hit them from the rear.
But Rommel has made the same mistake as the British. His plan has little to no contigency for if the enemy chooses not to play his game.

The attack, "Operation Venezia", gets off to a bad start. When Crüwell leads forward the Italians and the 15th Infantry Brigade, his diversion accomlishes nothing.
No British reserves have been tied down, and as a result Rommel drives straight into all of XXX Corps as he loops south of Bir Hacheim.
Luckily for him, the first unit he encounters, the 3rd Indian Motor Brigade, is unprepared for battle and is easily routed by a combination of the panzers and the Giovani Fascisti Regiment.
He next encounters 4th Armoured Brigade, defeating it but not finish off the formation. 90th Light crosses paths with the 7th Motor Brigade, ejecting it from the Retma "box".
But that's when the successes stop. 90th Light Division reaches El Adem with its reconnaissance forces, but the troops there defeat its attack.
When 15th Panzer Division reaches the Knightsbridge area, it's suddenly surrounded, with tanks of 32nd Army Tank Brigade and infantry of 201st Guards Brigade attacking from all sides.
Only poor British coordination prevents the division from severe destruction, though it does lose an infantry battalion and its commander, von Värst, replaced by Crasemann.
Scared, Rommel, pulls his troops back to a defensive ring where he hopes he can lure the enemy into attacking in poor terrain.

There, in the so-called "Hexenkessel" or "Cauldron", Rommel's two divisions and Italian support are cut off from supplies by the remnants of the 3rd Indian Motor Brigade.
But the rest of the British forces fail to offer support for the unfortunate brigade, which is again attacked and finally destroyed for good.
Their rear clear of the enemy, Italian and German engineers clear a path through the minefields and bring the panzres fresh supplies.
Only now do the British manage to organize an attack, having brought up the 5th Indian Division. Its 11th Brigade will attack, along with all the British armor.

That attack, "Operation Aberdeen", goes terribly. Coordination between the units is poor and neither corps commander, Gott or Norrie, takes charge.
4th Indian Division's commander, Briggs, and 7th Armoured Division's commander, Messervy, are trapped trying to support one another while their units are raked with fire.
Reorganizing his positions, Rommel keeps the enemy in place with the Italians and the 90th Light Division, before the 15th Panzer Division flanks them from the south.
The result is devastating. 11th Indian Infantry Brigade is largely surrounded but manages to break out with high losses. Half of the tanks committed to the operation are lost.
With 4th Indian Division greatly reduced and few tanks left, the 1st South African Division has no choice but to deploy its reserves to cover its now open flank.
Ritchie accepts that the battle has been lost. He gives the order for the South Africans to pull back and keeps his tanks as a rearguard.

Rommel tries to prevent the withdrawal, striking the Rigel ridge with the 15th Panzer Division, where he destroys elements of the 201st Guards Brigade.
The 90th Light tries to do the same, attacking the remnants of 4th Armoured Brigade and the 29th Indian Infantry Brigade at El Adem, but is only partially successful.
The South Africans get away that night, though some of their rearguards are captured outside Tobruk.
Ritchie orders all the retreating units to the frontier, but Churchill changes his mind. He wants Tobruk to be defended just like in 1941.



SECOND "SIEGE" OF TOBRUK:



Tobruk Garrison (10 Battalions, 36 Companies)
	201st Guards Brigade (3 Battalions, 12 Companies)
		1st Battalion, Worcester Regiment
		1st Battalion, Sherwood Foresters
		3rd Battalion, Coldstream Guards
	11th Indian Infantry Brigade (5 Battalions, 18 Companies)
		2nd Battalion, Queen's Own Cameron Highlanders
		2nd Battalion, 5th Mahratta Light Infantry
		2nd Battalion, 7th Gurkha Rifles
		25th Field Regiment, Royal Artillery (3 Batteries)
		Beergroup (3 Composite Companies)
	32nd Army Tank Brigade (2 Battalions, 4 Companies)
		4th Royal Tank Regiment (2 Squadrons)
		7th Royal Tank Regiment (2 Squadrons)
	"Bush" Artillery Battery
	"Spigot" Mortar Company



Deutsches Afrika Korps (5 Battalions, 20 Companies)

15th Panzer Division (5 Battalions, 20 Companies)
	Kampfgruppe Baade (HQ 115th Motorized Infantry Regiment) (3 Battalions, 9 Companies)
		1st Battalion, 8th Panzer Regiment (4 Companies)
		33rd Motorized Engineer Battalion (2 Companies)
		3rd Battalion, 33rd Artillery Regiment (3 Companies)
	Kampfgruppe Menny (HQ 15th Infantry Brigade) (2 Battalions, 11 Companies)
		200th Regimental Staff z.b.V. (2 Battalions, 9 Companies)
			1st Battalion (4 Companies)
			2nd Battalion (4 Companies)
			708th Heavy Infantry Gun Company
		33rd Anti-Tank Battalion (2 Companies)



XXII Army Corps (12 Battalions, 40 Companies)

102nd Infantry Division "Trento" (6 Battalions, 20 Companies)
	61st Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions, 7 Companies)
		1st Battalion (3 Companies)
		2nd Battalion (3 Companies)
		7th (Mortar) Company
	62nd Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions, 7 Companies)
		1st Battalion (3 Companies)
		2nd Battalion (3 Companies)
		7th (Mortar) Company
	46th Artillery Regiment (2 Battalions, 6 Companies)
		1st Group (3 Batteries 100/17)
		3rd Group (3 Batteries 75/27)

61st Infantry Division "Sirte" (6 Battalions, 20 Companies)
	69th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions, 7 Companies)
		1st Battalion (3 Companies)
		2nd Battalion (3 Companies)
		9th (Mortar) Company
	70th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions, 7 Companies)
		1st Battalion (3 Companies)
		2nd Battalion (3 Companies)
		9th (Mortar) Company
	Frontier Guards Artillery Regrouping "Sirte" (2 Battalions, 6 Companies)
		6th/31st Group (3 Batteries 75/27)
		7th/31st Group (3 Batteries 75/27)



The troops that defended Tobruk were much weaker than they had been back in 1941. Rather than an elite Australian or fresh Polish brigade, there were scraps.
The 201st Guards Brigade was to secure the eastern face of the defenses, while the 11th Indian Infantry Brigade held the right. A composite South African battalion held the coast.
The 70th Division was reformed under Willison's command to take control over the various garrison elements. However, he didn't have much time to prepare his defenses.
One battalion from the 201st Guards, plus the 32nd Army Tank Brigade's two battalions, were the form the reserve. It was hoped that the garrison could hold out for months.

But Rommel would not wait months to launch his attack. As soon as Gazala seemed over he ordered his men to prepare to assault the port.
Two Kampfgruppen of roughly equal size, led by Baade and Menny, would lead the operation, attacking the southeastern face of the defenses.
The Italians would mostly sit around the port in siege lines, though the 7th Bersaglieri Regiment would follow the German units and consolidate their gains.
Meanwhile, the 90th Light Division and the Giovani Fascisti Regiment would maintain the outer defenses against a British counterattack or relief effort.

The assault began quickly when ordered, though the rushed deployment created some confusion. The 90th Light held its outer positions, securing Sidi Azeiz.
Kampfgruppe Menny led the assault, attacking the 2nd Battalion, 5th Mahrattas. The poor design of the defenses gave the defenders little space.
Furthermore, the minefields had been moved to the Gazaa line months ago, and the anti-tank ditch was poorly maintained. Menny faced only weak resistance.
Within a few hours, Menny took most of the positions held by the Mahrattas. When Kampfgruppe, Baade joined him, they finished the battalion off and rolled over the defense line.
By that point, Willison had assembled a counterattack using his reserve, but infantry-armor coordination was poor and the force blundered straight into Baade's guns.
With the counterattack dispatched, nothing was in the way of the Germans anymore, and they flooded through the gap, followed by some Bersaglieri.
Menny moved to encircle the Gurkhas on the coast, while Baade overran Beergroup and took the port itself. The 7th Bersaglieri Regiment pinned down the 2nd Battalion, Cameron Highlanders.

By this point, Ritchie had ordered his other forces to begin a relief effort. However, of his units, only his 10th Indian Division was fresh, the rest all battered from Gazala.
Reconnaissance armored cars and elements of 7th Motor Brigade did end up striking out, but the 10th Indian Division wasn't ready and so did nothing.
The relief failed, the few units that did advance running directly into the defenses of the 90th Light Division.

Without help arriving, Willison recognized that his resistance was at an end. Only four battalions of infantry now remained with a bit of artillery for support.
He didn't have a chance of resisting of Baade now moved to crush what was left. After a brief conference with his staff, he ordered a surrender.
Some of the Guards infantry were shocked by this order, but the men of the Indian Brigade had long since accepted reality.
The fortress that had previously survived for nine months had resisted for but a single day. More than 10,000 soldiers entered captivity with Willison.



MATRUH:



8th Army (28 Battalions)

XIII Corps (28 Battalions)

4th Indian Infantry Division (10 Battalions)
	25th Indian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	29th Indian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	6th South African Armoured Car Regiment
	8th Irish Hussars

7th Armoured Division (9 Battalions)
	1st King's Dragoon Guards Armoured Cars
	4th Armoured Brigade Group (2 Armoured Battalions, 1 Infantry Battalion, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	7th Motor Brigade (3 Infantry Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)

2nd New Zealand Division (9 Battalions)
	28th (Maori) New Zealand Infantry Battalion
	4th New Zealand Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	5th New Zealand Infantry Brigade (3 Battalnions)
	4th New Zealand Field Regiment
	5th New Zealand Field Regiment



Deutsches Afrika Korps (14 Battalions)

15th Panzer Division (9 Battalions)
	8th Panzer Regiment (1 Battalion)
	115th Motorized Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	33rd Reconnaissance Battalion
	33rd Artillery Regiment (1 Battalion, 1 Half-and-Half Battalion, 1 Heavy Battalion)
	33rd Anti-Tank Battalion
	33rd Motorized Engineer Battalion

90th Light Division (5 Battalions)
	Sonderverband 288 (2 Battalions)
	200th Motorized Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	580th Reconnaissance Company



XXII Army Corps (18 Battalions)

7th Motorized Bersaglieri Regiment (2 Battalions)
Infantry Regiment "Giovani Fascisti" (2 Motorized Militia Battalions)
Flying Batteries Regrouping (RBV) (2 Motorized Artillery Battalions (14,15))

102nd Infantry Division "Trento" (6 Battalions)
	61st Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions)
	62nd Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions)
	46th Artillery Regiment (2 Battalions (1,3))

61st Infantry Division "Sirte" (6 Battalions)
	69th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	70th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	Frontier Guards Artillery Regrouping "Sirte" (2 Battalions (323,324))



Immediately after taking Tobruk, the Germans advanced again. They crossed the frontier without much resistance and headed into Egypt.
The commander of the 2nd Battalion, 200th Motorized Infantry Regiment, Panzenhagen, wanted to rest his men at Bardia, but was denied and told to go to Matruh.
Within a few days, Sonderverband 288 could've completed reorganization and become a grenadier regiment. But it didn't happen. Rommel had no time to waste.

British troops didn't fight until they could reach Matruh. While the defenses there were poor, they were better than nothing.
Auchinleck had replaced Ritchie by this point... with himself. He was now commander of 8th Army and of the Middle East.
4th Indian Division's third brigade, the 25th, had finally arrived, but only after its other two brigades were either destroyed or lost half their strength.
This division, reinforced with a couple random tank and armored car units, would defend Matruh itself.
It had been hoped that the arriving 2nd New Zealand Division would take that task, but Freyberg declined, instead moving his division south to Minqar Qaim.
Screening his division was the remains of 7th Armoured, which had received enough replacements to fight with decent effectiveness.

Auchinleck had wanted to defend, but at the same time, recognized that Matruh was only a delaying position. He thus adopted a mixed stance.
Either way, the Axis arrived quickly. Only the motorized units arrived initially, with the DAK (under Nehring since Crüwell's capture) arriving at the British center.
There, they found nothing but a few scattered companies of the 29th Indian Infantry Brigade, easily sweeping them aside.
As the Indian brigade's remnants withdrew, 15th Panzer Division arrived east of Minqar Qaim while 90th Light Division headed for the coast.
The British response wasn't much. Elements of 25th Indian Infantry Brigade moved to cover its flank while elements of 7th Armoured joined the New Zealanders.

15th Panzer Division now encountered some New Zealend elements, clearing away their second echelon and surrounding their main body.
At the same time, 90th Light Division reached the coast, surrounding the elements at Matruh inside their own little pocket.
By this time, Auchinleck recognized the near-disastrous state of his forces. Not willing to see a repeat of Gazala, he gave the order to retreat.
7th Armoured Division was the first to receive the order. They withdrew far south of any Axis forces and out east, but a lack of supplies meant they were out of the battle.
They were followed by the New Zealand Division, which was forced to fight its way through elements of the 15th Panzer Division to get out.
While much equpiment was lost, the majority of the division's units made it out to regroup at the El Alamein position.

This left only the 4th Indian Division left, which remained surrounded. Overnight, its units attempted to slip out of the trap, but were spotted on the way.
A series of firefights broke out as the Indian soldiers made their escape. Italian and German forces alike fired on them as they ran.
While it was far from easy, they did manage to break out. Briggs reported his division had lost 40% of its strength, but it at least wasn't destroyed in the "box".
So ended Mersa Matruh, the battle that neither side had wanted to fight. Again the British units were routed.



FIRST EL ALAMEIN:



8th Army (45 Battalions)

XXX Corps (18 Battalions)

1st South African Division (9 Battalions)
	1st South African Infantry Brigade (3 Infantry Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	2nd South African Infantry Brigade (3 Infantry Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	Machine Gun Battalion "President Steyn"
	6th South African Armoured Car Regiment

4th Indian Infantry Division (8 Battalions)
	18th Indian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	25th Indian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)

XIII Corps (28 Battalions)

7th Armoured Division (9 Battalions)
	1st King's Dragoon Guards Armoured Cars
	4th Armoured Brigade Group (2 Armoured Battalions, 1 Infantry Battalion, 1 Artillery Battalion)
	7th Motor Brigade (3 Infantry Battalions, 1 Artillery Battalion)

2nd New Zealand Division (15 Battalions)
	27th Machine Gun Battalion
	28th (Maori) Infantry Battalion
	4th New Zealand Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	5th New Zealand Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	6th New Zealand Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)
	4th New Zealand Field Regiment
	5th New Zealand Field Regiment
	6th New Zealand Field Regiment
	7th New Zealand Anti-Tank Regiment

20th Australian Infantry Brigade (3 Battalions)



Deutsches Afrika Korps (14 Battalions)

15th Panzer Division (9 Battalions)
	8th Panzer Regiment (1 Battalion)
	115th Motorized Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	33rd Reconnaissance Battalion
	33rd Artillery Regiment (1 Battalion, 1 Half-and-Half Battalion, 1 Heavy Battalion)
	33rd Anti-Tank Battalion
	33rd Motorized Engineer Battalion

90th Light Division (5 Battalions)
	200th Motorized Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	288th Motorized Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	580th Reconnaissance Company



XXII Army Corps (21 Battalions)

7th Motorized Bersaglieri Regiment (2 Battalions)

102nd Infantry Division "Trento" (6 Battalions)
	61st Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions)
	62nd Infantry Regiment (2 Infantry Battalions)
	46th Artillery Regiment (2 Battalions (1,3))

61st Infantry Division "Sirte" (6 Battalions)
	69th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	70th Infantry Regiment (2 Battalions)
	Frontier Guards Artillery Regrouping "Sirte" (2 Battalions (323,324))

136th Armored Division "Giovani Fascisti" (7 Battalions)
	Infantry Regiment "Giovani Fascisti" (2 Motorized Militia Battalions)
	136th Motorized Artillery Regiment (4 Battalions)
	3rd Armored Car Squadrons Group, "Cavalleggeri di Monferrato"



Battle



With Matruh dealt with, mostly, the Afrika Korps advanced to what seemed to be the final British blocking position before the Nile Delta.
While it was the only one left, El Alamein was a strong one. The Ruweisat Ridge and Qattara Depression made it a natural defensive position.
And it was well-manned. The three divisions that had retreated from Matruh were reinforced by the 1st South African Division and 18th Indian Infantry Brigade.
What's more, additional units could be expected in but days' time. As long as the Germans didn't completely roll over them, the British could win.

In the opening confrontation, things didn't get off to a good start. The 18th Indian Infantry Brigade had only just arrived and had little desert experience.
When 15th Panzer Division ran across its positions in the middle of the desert, there was barely a contest. The brigade was destroyed in a day's time.
But the sacrifice of the 18th Indian had given the rest of the army time to prepare for when the 15th Panzer Division next advanced.
That time, it was the 7th Armoured Division that took the hit. Well-supported by tanks, it was able to beat off the attack.
90th Light Division was stopped too, as its two regiments ran into two dug-in South African Brigade Groups that pummeled it with artillery.

Rommel had to call off his first attack and wait for the Italians to catch up. When they did, though, supply issues still crippled his forces.
The 90th Light once again ran into strong defenses, and the panzers found the enemy dug in atop Ruweisat Ridge. No gains were made.
Italian units had joined the attack, but many columns were stretched out over the desert and achieved little.
The Sirte Division had failed in an assault on the Alamein box while the Trento Division was caught near the 90th Light.
More Italian subunits tried to outflank British positions from the south but ran straight into the 2nd New Zealand Division.

By this point, the Axis attack had well and truly petered out. The Alamein line had not been broken.
Auchinleck could've taken his defensive success. But with two fresh brigades arriving, he saw a chance to counterattack.
The 20th Australian Brigade was to hit the Italians on the coast while the 7th Armoured Divsiion hit the enemy center.
The results were mixed. While the Australians overran the Sirte Division and captured a whole battalion, 7th Armoured did nothing.
Once again, 15th Panzer Division had proved unassailable on the defense, though its attack prospects were highly mixed.

Auchinleck had one final operation prepared, Operation Manhood. This time, the 1st Battalion, the Buffs would attack with some tanks.
The Australians would try again too, driving once again toward the weakly held lines of the Sirte Division.
The British attack went poorly from the start. They ran into concentrated Italian artillery fire and were overrun by a counterattack.
The Australians, too, were turned back, as the Sirte Division had finally gotten all of its elements in line and reorganized.
With the operation clearly failing, and the 4th Armoured Brigade losing more of the tanks it sent as support, Auchinleck ended the operation.

The First Battle of El Alamein had ended in a costly stalemate for both sides. The New Zealand Division had lost 4,000 men alone.
Other than the 18th Indian Infantry Brigade, though, no British units had been completely destroyed. It was a much better performance that at Gazala or Matruh.
On the other side, Rommel understood his advance was over. The Sirte and Trento Divisions were so badly mauled they had to be merged into one.
His German units were doing little better, their strength whittled away by each battle and every British counterattack.
It was time to dig in, plant some mines, and await reinforcements.



Aftermath



After failing to break through the line and being severely depleted by counterattacks, the axis recognized their offensive was over.
Auchinleck agreed, as his attempts had resulted in less and less success in the recent weeks. Thus both sides entered a stalemate position.
Their primary objective now would be to build up resources for a future offensive, a task the British had a significant advantage at.


